Which sanctions are going into effect? US punitive sanctions set to go into effect on November 5 are aimed at Iran's economic heart: energy exports. All business with Iranian oil companies will be prohibited, as are insurances of any kind, including policies on oil shipments. Existing sanctions on Iran's financial sector will also be tightened – from Monday onward, all financial transactions with Iran's central bank and a number of other banks will be banned. The US is intent upon bringing Iranian oil exports to zero. Oil sales account for some 80 percent of all state income in Iran and since 60 percent of Iran's budget expenditures are distributed to state-run businesses and institutions the country is extremely dependent upon the revenue they produce. Read more: Iran braces as US prepares to reimpose pre-JCPOA sanctions What sanctions are already in place? When it unilaterally withdrew from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) – also known as the Iran nuclear deal – on May 8, the US gave its partners two deadlines to wind down business with Iran. The first 60-day deadline came on August 6. At that point Iran was barred from trading in US dollars. Key Iranian industries such as the automotive sector or carpet production were also sanctioned. The sale of commercial airliners or replacement parts for existing models – access to which had already been greatly hampered – were forbidden entirely. The second deadline will come on November 5. US President Trump signed an executive order on August 5 aimed at piling financial pressure on Tehran to force a "comprehensive and lasting solution" to Iranian threats, including its development of missiles and regional "malign" activities. Trump warned that those who don't wind down their economic ties to Iran "risk severe consequences." The first phase, which took effect on August 7, targets the Islamic Republic's access to US banknotes, making transactions in a US-dollar dominated financial world difficult. A ban on Iran purchasing precious metals including gold further serves as an attempt to cut the country off from global markets. Phase one also hits key industries including the purchase of commercial planes, cars and carpets. Iranian imports of graphite, aluminum, steel, coal, gold and some software are also affected. German automaker Daimler called off the production and sale of Mercedes-Benz trucks in Iran indefinitely after the sanctions came into force. A second phase of sanctions — which is due to take effect on November 5 and will block Iran's oil sales — is due to cause more damage. Several countries, however, including China, India and Turkey have indicated they are not willing to entirely cut their Iranian energy purchases. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the United States had launched "psychological warfare" against Iran to create division amongst its people. But he insisted that Iran still can rely on its allies China and Russia to keep its oil and banking sectors afloat. He has also demanded compensation for decades of American "intervention" in the Islamic Republic. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc is encouraging small and medium enterprises to increase their business with Iran. She said Tehran has been compliant with their nuclear-related commitments. The EU issued a "blocking statute" to protect European businesses from the impact of the sanctions. Author: Keith Walker What is the aim of the sanctions? According to the Trump administration, "maximum pressure" on Iran is a tool to force Iranian leaders to change course. On May 21, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo presented a list of 12 demands that the US said must be met before sanctions would be lifted. Among other things, Tehran had to stop its missile program, and "end support to Middle East terrorist groups, including Hezbollah, Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad." Read more: UN court orders US to ditch Iran sanctions Furthermore, Pompeo said Iran must remove all troops under its command from Syria and demobilize Shiite militias in Iraq. Regime change is not among the declared aims of US sanctions. Nevertheless, public statements by National Security Advisor John Bolton suggest that destabilization and regime change would be more than welcome from Washington's perspective. Can the EU defend itself against unilateral US sanctions? The US is using its predominance on global financial markets and its comparative attractiveness as a place to do business as opposed to Iran, as leverage in pursuing its political aims. As a result, measures that essentially allow Washington to regulate European and other international businesses have been correspondingly harsh. In late September, the EU's chief diplomat, Federica Mogherini, announced that the EU was developing a mechanism known as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to facilitate business transactions with Iran. The SPV would operate like an exchange, allowing European and Iranian businesses to settle accounts with one another at an EU clearing house. Oil deliveries, for example, could be paid for with textile production machinery. The set-up would make the flow of cash across international financial markets disappear. That said, the SPV is far from operational and no one knows where the institution will actually be based. While announcements of new EU institutions generally draw a great amount of attention from those eager to host their headquarters, that has not been the case with the SPV. European member states have been loathe to volunteer for fear of drawing Washington's ire. Trump's security advisor Bolton threatened that the USA would not "allow our sanctions to be evaded by Europe or anybody else." Read more: EU plan to sidestep Iran sanctions: How will it work? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36Oyn What effect have sanctions had so far? Iran's currency, the rial, is in free fall, having lost 70 percent of its value this year and inflation is skyrocketing. Iranian energy exports have dropped by almost a third since June. Rising energy costs – which are painfully felt at the country's gas stations – are also tied to shortages brought on by sanctions. After a short honeymoon of cooperation and international investment in Iran, many international companies have headed for the exit since May. Among those who left, many were European businesses fearful of being locked out of the far more lucrative American market should they stay. Imports to Iran have been greatly hampered across the board. Life-saving drugs, for instance, have become hard to find and are extremely expensive. Still, Iran has years of experience in dealing with US sanctions and has announced its shift to a "resistance economy." From a political standpoint, Washington's sanctions only bolster Iran's ultra-conservative forces, who have always been critical of any form of rapprochement with the West. Read more: Rouhani: Iran citizens 'lost faith in Islamic republic' Moreover, Washington's one-sided withdrawal from the JCPOA and the implementation of unilateral sanctions have deepened the trans-atlantic divide. Now, Europe is standing side by side with Beijing and Moscow and against Washington in one of the central international questions of our day. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37XjG Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.