Germany's Interior Minister Horst Seehofer is expected to quit as the head of Bavaria's Christian Social Union (CSU) party, which serves as the closest ally of Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU). According to politicians involved in the discussions, Seehofer informed top CSU leaders of his decision on Sunday. The 69-year-old  is expected to make a public statement on his resignation in the coming week. A new party leader is due to be elected at a conference early next year. Rumors of Seehofer's resignation first appeared in German media earlier this week, but he denied them as a "red herring." Fallout from Bavaria debacle The poor performance of the CSU at the Bavarian elections in October brought immense pressure on the party leadership. The party stayed on top of the polls with 37.2 percent of the vote but lost its absolute majority in the state assembly. Its share of the vote dipped 10.5 percent compared with the 2013 election. In the wake of election losses, Seehofer said he would rather resign rather than "play the scapegoat again" for his party's performance. "You can criticize me, but to reduce it all to Horst Seehofer and make him responsible for everything, I personally will not go along with that," he told public broadcaster Bayerischer Rundfunk. Tensions with Merkel The latest reports of Seehofer's resignation come less than two weeks after Chancellor Angela Merkel said she would not run for the CDU party leadership again at the upcoming polls in December. Bavarian conservatives are considered a sister party to the Merkel's CDU, but Seehofer repeatedly clashed with Angela Merkel since taking office as interior minister in her latest cabinet. They disagreed most notably over immigration policy. Seehofer is also planning to step down as interior minister before the end of his term in 2021, unnamed sources told the DPA news agency. Horst Seehofer (right) has effectively lived, breathed and eaten CSU values, probably since he was born. The 69-year-old has been at the helm of the party and Bavaria since 2008 and has, thus far, staved off challenges to his throne by young upstarts such as Markus Söder (left). More on him a little later. But in the wake of a crushing September election result, Seehofer may no longer be tenable. Seehofer hinted at his resignation following the CSU debacle in Bavaria in October 2018. Later, when German media cited sources close to him to report he would soon step down, Seehofer denied it. Just days later, he reportedly told top CSU members he would relinquish his office, and probably step down as interior minister at a later date. Lyrics from what is possibly Markus Söder's favorite tune. One of the pretenders to Seehofer's throne, the finance minister has been forging alliances within the CSU to prop up his position as the next-in-line. Problem is, his boss doesn't see it that way and quite frankly doesn't like him. Standing in front of the Acropolis might be the pinnacle for him — akro is Greek for "highest point." Arguably the smoothest of the CSU's smooth operators, Alexander Dobrindt has made a name for himself at the national level as transport minister — but not necessarily for the right reasons: Dieselgate, a controversial road toll and the farce that is the planned Berlin-Brandenburg airport, to be completed in...oh, stop it. Anyway, Seehofer seems to like him and his checkered suits. Unassuming but not to be underestimated, Bavaria's Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann is respected beyond the state and was touted to head up the federal Interior Ministry before it all went pear-shaped. He's known for his tough stance on a refugee cap, an issue dear to his boss Seehofer's heart. His age, 61, may count against him if the CSU really does want to rejuvenate. While she may need to work on her hat choices, deputy premier and Bavarian Economics Minister Ilse Aigner at least has a clear idea of what she wants politically. She's positioned herself as a possible Seehofer successor, much to his chagrin, by calling for a primary to decide on who should lead the CSU in next year's state election. Manfred Weber heads the European People's Party in the European Parliament — don't fall asleep just yet. While that would normally exclude him from new pastures within the CSU, on the grounds of being boring, he's seen as one of Seehofer's key confidants and has defended his boss against attacks from the CSU's youth wing. He's been a steadying influence within the party. Remember Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg? He of the slicked-back, jet-black hair and a plagiarized dissertation? The thing is, the people in Bavaria love him and Germany arguably never had a cooler-looking defense minister. But, more importantly, Seehofer has made no attempts to hide his admiration and sees Guttenberg as his and the party's natural hair, er, heir. Author: Rob Mudge dj/jm (dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 