Bavaria's Administrative Court ruled on Wednesday that the state's police officers are not allowed to get visible tattoos. The case that led to the verdict was brought foward by a Bavarian policeman. Five years ago, the man asked his employer to allow him to get a tattoo reading "Aloha" on his forearm, but his superiors in Middle Franconia refused. The reason: When the 42-year old policeman dons his short-sleeved summer uniform, the tattoo would be visible to everyone. The verdict is legally binding and stands for all police officers in Bavaria.   Strict rules in Bavaria The ban can be traced back to Article 75 of Bavaria's Civil Service regulations. Authorities can stipulate the uniforms and external appearance of employees. This also includes "how the hair and beard are worn as well as other characteristics that are visible and can't be easily removed." The policeman claimed the rules on the appearance of Bavaria's police are outdated. "I'm disappointed," he said after the verdict. "And I don't understand it," he added. Read more: German minister pushes for stricter rules in the tattoo industry It's not the first time judges are called to decide on whether policemen whould be allowed to get tattoos or not. But according to the German Police Officers' Union, Bavaria has been the most restrictive state in Germany in dealing with tattooed policemen. Until he became a father, the lower arms of Germany midfielder Toni Kroos were tattoo-free zones. But that changed for the Real Madrid star with the births of Leon and Amelie. He has Leon's face – along with his name and birth date on his left arm, while Amelie's name and birthday is on his right – just in case he ever forgets the names of his children… David Beckham also has those nearest and dearest to him under his skin. The former England, Manchester United and Los Angeles Galaxy star has the names of his children as well as a portrait of his wife Victoria tattooed on his body. He also has tattoos of Jesus and angels, as well as a quotation from the bible: "I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine." Isn't that sweet! Three years ago then-Paris Saint-Germain striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic complimented his real tattoos with the names of 50 starving people, representative for the 805 million undernourished people on the planet. The Swedish star took off his jersey to reveal the artwork after scoring a goal. He was rewarded with the yellow card. Apart from long passages of text, Bayern Munich defender Jerome Boateng's tattoos include symbols from the world of football. He has a tattoo of the official Champions League ball on his right elbow, and after Germany won the World Cup in 2014, he had the trophy tattooed on his calf. There is, however, still room for the 2018 World Cup… Borussia Dortmund's oft-injured star Marco Reus is well-loved but doesn't feel the need to display it in tattoo form. Unlike other footballers, he chooses not to walk around with the names and/or images of his mother, wife or children tattooed all over his body. He simply has his own name and date of birth on his lower left arm. We all know how daring Barcelona's star striker Lionel Messi can be with the ball at his feet, but what is not as well documented is that he can be the same way when it comes to his choice of tattoos. The diminutive Argentine has gone with a red-lips tattoo – just below the belt. Before that, Messi caused a stir on social media with his stocking tattoo. Last year he had his left lower leg colored almost completely black to hide previous tattoos, which had evidently fallen out of favor. Cologne goalkeeper Timo Horn likes his tattoos big and with a religious theme. This one, which features his baptismal verse, was done by his favorite tattoo artist, Oscar Boge, who has been known to travel great distances to work on his many customers from the footballing world – during the little downtime they have in the sport's packed calendar. Suntan lotion, expensive skin creams and expensive perfume from his own collection are all that Cristiano Ronaldo allows on his skin. The Real Madrid and Portugal superstar takes off his shirt to reveal his six-pack on every possible occasion. This is the man whom more and more players from the Bundesliga and abroad are getting to do their tattoos. Oscar "Da Vinci" Boge (right) says he collects footballers like some footballers collect trophies. Here he is seen with one of his more prominent customers, Germany and Manchester City attacker Leroy Sane . Author: Melanie Last (pfd) Tattoos often a problem for policemen According to research from the University of Leipzig, one in five Germans has a tattoo. The number of people between 35 and 44 who don a tattoo has increased 15 percent since 2009. But even though tattoos have become widespread, things haven't always been easier for law enforcement officers. Last September an Administrative Court in the eastern city of Magdeburg ruled that a prospective police officer could not be turned down because he had two tattoos on his calves: a masked figure and the logo of the local football team. A similar case occurred in Münster, where a judge found that a large lion head tattooed on an applicant's arm was not a reason to exclude him from the police force. In other cases, the ruling hinged on the kind of tattoo in question. In April, a Labor Court in Berlin ruled against a policeman who had the Greek goddess Diana with naked breasts tattooed on his arm. A similar verdict came from a case in Hesse, where in 2014 the state's Administrative Court ruled against a job applicant for the police who had a tattoo reading "please subdue me" on her arm. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2qaV8 gs/rt (dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.