Some 200,000 people marched through Warsaw on Sunday to commemorate a century of independence despite fears that the occasion could be disrupted by far-right groups. Those marching mostly waved the national white-and-red flag. But emblems could also be seen belonging to the National Radical Camp (ONR), a radical movement behind an opposing rally which took the same path. Polish authorities beefed up security in case of a possible standoff, after last year's far-right rally drew global condemnation for its use of explicitly racist and anti-immigrant banners and slogans. Previous far-right rallies on Independence Day have turned violent. President Andrzej Duda, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the powerful leader of the conservative ruling party, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, marched in a group led by soldiers with a large flag bearing the words "For You Poland." As the Polish president spoke at the start of the march, he was at times obscured by the heavy smoke from flares set off by ONR supporters. Despite their apparent distance from the alternative rally, the right-wing Law and Justice Party (PiS) government is regularly criticized for tacitly supporting groups with roots in the fascist and anti-Semitic movements. Read more:Hitler 'forced' to invade Poland, AfD youth leader claims Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37rsR Far-right groups refuse to back down The PiS government held talks with far-right groups on Friday to reschedule the two events, but it was later confirmed that the two would coincide. Duda said Wednesday the state military parade had legal priority. Far-right groups, however, refused to back down after a court in Warsaw overturned a separate ban imposed by the capital's mayor citing the risk of a clash and hate speech. "There is a clear red line between patriotic behavior and nationalistic or chauvinistic (behavior) [and] neo-Nazis," Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki told media Thursday, vowing that authorities would act against those who would display fascist symbols at the Sunday rally. Tense ties with the EU Ties between Poland and the European Union have deteriorated since the PiS took office in 2015. European Council President Donald Tusk on Saturday criticized the PiS-led government for repeatedly clashing with the EU and likened them to "contemporary Bolsheviks" who threaten the country's independence. The communists used the student protests to purge 12,000 Poles of Jewish origin from Poland. On March 8, 2018. Duda made an emotional plea for forgiveness and placed flowers on at a memorial at the university. The March 1968 protests across Poland were quickly suppressed by the government of the People's Republic of Poland. The political crisis was used as an excuse by the communists to purge Jews from the government. German Chancellor Willy Brandt's son Peter (second from right) marched in West Berlin in solidarity with Polish students who were demonstrating in Poland in 1968. The protests in Poland were ruthlessly suppressed by the communist government. Students demonstrated in front of the Communist Party building in Warsaw in 1968. The Communist Party used the student protests to purge Jews from the party and from Poland. 12,000 Jews ultimately left Poland Polish militia cracked down on the student protests. On March 18, 1968, student protests spread across Poland and the Communist Party ruthlessly suppressed the demonstrations. Intellectual centers and universities across Poland erupted in protest in 1968 when officials banned a play by Polish Romantic-era poet Adam Mickiewicz which was deemed to have an anti-Russian message. ap, mm, shs/amp (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.