"People want heroes," is how a top-ranking German astrophysicist, Karsten Danzmann, put it in 2017 when I asked him how he felt about that year's Nobel Prize in Physics. The prize was awarded to just three out of thousands who had all helped scientists at the LIGO detectors in the US spot gravitational waves for the first time. "The impact of the prize on society is much larger," said Danzmann, "if you live with this shortcoming." And it was a shortcoming with which he was willing to live. Read more: Scientists are 'rotten forecasters' of the future In another world, Danzmann may have himself been one of the winners — he's been integral to global research on gravitational waves. But Nobel Prizes only ever go to a maximum of three people, and the committee landed on Rainer Weiss, Barry C. Barish and Kip S. Thorne. "You find a victim and say, okay, that's the person," said Danzmann. "And they have to sacrifice themselves for a year and bear the burden of the media hype for a good cause." So "it's all good," isn't it? Perhaps if you stick to the science. But let's look a little deeper. If the Nobel committee is scared of the gene-editing technology CRISPR-Cas 9, the Breakthrough Prize is not: Genetics scientists Emanuelle Charpentier (left) and Jennifer A. Doudna (right) were at the Breakthrough Prize Awards in 2014 The Nobel Prize was as close as its founder, Alfred Nobel, could get to a posthumous conscience-washing. The award has sought since 1901 to atone for the Nobel family legacy of having invented a raft of killing tools, like dynamite. So when we mark the Nobel Prizes each year, which we journalists dutifully do, we not only laud the new laureates and their work, but we also simultaneously present the reclusive Alfred Nobel as the world's solitary do-gooder. He may well have been a man of some good, albeit a late bloomer. But the hype ignores all the other stuff. And that's just the Nobel Prize. Once seen as the only science prize worth winning, it's now no longer as much of a loner as its namesake. Even a cursory glance at Wikipedia's "List of science and technology awards" — allow me that lazy shorthand in my research — indicates a bloated field. Allowing for some doubles, where the respective organizations award prizes in more than one scientific discipline, there are about 48 astronomy prizes, 23 in aviation and space technology, 14 for biochemistry, over 100 prizes in health care sciences, and around the same again in chemistry, biology, engineering, mathematics, physics, and various others in oceanography, and the odd overlooked field like paleontology and … oh … computer science. British Astronomer Royal Martin Rees is no fan of science prizes, but he is a fan of new entries like the Breakthrough and Gruber prizes 'diluting' the primacy of the Nobel Prize These new prizes bring new problems. For a start, with such a rich list, we can't see the science for all the awards. Is it any wonder that we maintain a US/Euro-centric vision of "what is science" and what's important for human development? Quite naturally, then, (or not), it follows that we may never know or even care that Nigeria has its own national prize for science. Who even knew they did science, right? Well, they do. And what about all the awards specifically for women in science, around 50 if we trust Wikipedia, and that includes the Elizabeth Blackwell Medal. Read more: Eyeing a 'third woman' at the 2018 Nobel Prize in Physics Granted, there are plenty of women in science who would rather not be "women in science" but the higher form of a simple scientist, without any reference to their gender. But you probably get the point: We ignore a lot of potentially good science and scientists. Still, as far as I can tell, one of the greatest issues — if not dangers — inherent in science prizes is that so many of them are initiated and funded by Western industry and "devil-may-care" futurists who got da power to do whatever they like. So no matter whether they come with grandiose mission statements, like Nobel's "science that benefits humanity," they also come with a very specific worldview of what and who constitutes humanity, and just how and whom that science should benefit. It puts the prize initiators front and center, as though they alone may determine our future. If you think this is just paranoid drivel, take a look at the Breakthrough Prize, which holds an awards' ceremony on Sunday, November 4. US musician Alicia Keys singing at the 2016 Breakthrough Prize ceremony in Silicon Valley Established in 2012 by Russian scientist — and moneymaker — Yuri Milner, the Breakthrough Prize is credited with having brought new wind into the landscape. It dubs itself "The Oscars of Science." Last year's ceremony was presented by actor Morgan Freeman . This year's will feature former James Bond star Pierce Brosnan and musician Lionel Richie. (For the under-30s: They were famous ... once.) Each prize "is" $3 million (€2.6 million). Check the wording there. It's all about the money. And what a can of worms it will be when we investigate how that prize money is spent or audited. But I digress. Britain's Astronomer Royal, Martin Rees, has said that "glitzy academic prizes" provoke ambivalence among researchers. "This has only been intensified by the slew of new awards set up in recent years by wealthy donors," he wrote in a 2017 edition of Times Higher Education, "some of which are promoted with a razzmatazz that celebrates the donor as much as the awardees." In general, though, Rees welcomes the emergence of new prizes because it "dilutes the primacy of the Nobel Prizes." He also likes them because they recognize hitherto under-represented fields, like philosophy, and because newbies like the Breakthrough Prize, and the Gruber Prize, award "all team members," unlike the Nobel Prizes. Fancy fulfilling someone else's vision? Win a Breakthrough Prize, co-founded by Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and his wife Priscilla Chan But I'd like to add a word of caution. Taking the Breakthrough Prize as our example, look closer at the donors. They include such tech demigods as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan, Google's Sergey Brin and his "genomics pioneering" ex-wife  (quote: Wikipedia) Anne Wojcicki, and Alibaba's Jack and Pony Ma. Their number even include(d) that whacky "Starshot" scientist, Stephen Hawking. (Yes, I did just write ill of the dead.) And gawd, I can't resist but to continue: What a dog and pony show?! These folk certainly enjoy the limelight. There's just one good thing about that, and that is that we have a better-than-rough idea of how they want to see the world develop over the next decade or two. Now that needn't be such an issue if you happen to agree with their singular worldview — and I do mean singular in the sense of Ray Kurzweil's theory of Singularity. But if you find yourself as a young scientist dependent on funding from pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer or glitzy science awards or even the dusty ones, there's a fair bet you will tailor your research to those fields that happen to prop up the vision of your donors, especially the very rich ones. What's more important, Professor Hawking? Getting to Alpha Centauri or discovering treatments for dementia? Ergo, theirs becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, and a bunch of other, potentially vital research, most probably that which would only benefit the meek in our planet's remotest regions and communities, is left totally untouched. And I can't see how that benefits humanity at all.  Born in 1815, Ada Lovelace was the daughter of the famous poet Lord Byron. A gifted mathematician, she is said to have written instructions for the first computer program in the mid-1800s. She is considered the first person to realize that computers, still not a reality, had potential beyond mere calculation. Lovelace is known chiefly for her work on Charles Babbage's proposed "Analytical Engine." Marie Curie was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize. Not only that, she was the first person to win one twice. Born in Warsaw in 1867, she became a naturalized French citizen. Curie shared the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics - for research on radiation phenomena - with husband Pierre and physicist Henri Becquerel. She won the 1911 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discovering radium and polonium. Rosalind Franklin never received a Nobel Prize, although many believe she should have. Biophysicist Franklin was an X-ray crystallographer whose practical work was heavily relied upon by James Watson and Francis Crick in their discovery of the DNA double helix, which won the Nobel prize for medicine. By the time the prize was awarded, Franklin had died of ovarian cancer. British biochemist Dorothy Hodgkin was a contemporary of Franklin, and the two shared their expertise with one another. Hodgkin developed crystallography techniques to give an insight into the structures of biomolecules and won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1964, becoming the third woman to do so. Five years after winning, Hodgkin was the first person to decipher the structure of insulin. Australian-American Elizabeth Blackburn won the Nobel Prize for Physiology/Medicine in 2009 for her work on telomeres - the protective tips that lie at the end of our chromosomes. Blackburn co-discovered the enzyme telomerase, which allows telomeres to be replenished. Telomerase allows cells to go on dividing, so it appears to influence aging and could have implications in cancer research. British primatologist Jane Goodall is considered the world's leading expert on chimpanzees and has spent decades studying the social and family interactions of wild chimpanzees in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania. She came up with names for many of the animals, drawing criticism from some who accused her of anthropomorphizing. Born in Italy in 1909, Rita Levi-Montalcini had her career cut short by Benito Mussolini's laws banning Jews from academia. Undeterred, she set up a lab in her bedroom and studied the growth of nerve fibers in chicken embryos. After the war, she worked in St. Louis, where she isolated Nerve Growth Factor from cancer tissues. She shared a 1986 Nobel Prize for that with colleague Stanley Cohen. In 1967, Northern Irish physicist Jocelyn Bell Burnell discovered a signal that pulsed at a regular rate. The signal, detected by radio telescope, was dubbed the "little green man." It turned out not to be alien communication, but a rapidly spinning neutron star - the first "pulsar" to be detected. In 1974, her supervisor jointly won a Nobel Prize for pulsar work. Bell Burnell was not a recipient. Author: Richard Connor