The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved on Monday an advanced cancer treatment drug that combats solid tumors caused by a rare genetic mutation. The drug will be sold under the brand name Vitrakvi in a partnership between US-based pharmaceutical company Loxo Oncology and Germany's Bayer. How the drug works The drug works by targeting a specific gene mutation in tumors, regardless of their location Praise for a 'tissue-agnostic' treatment The FDA said in its press release that, "the approval marks a new paradigm in the development of cancer drugs that are 'tissue agnostic,'" using a term applied to drugs that are not linked to tumor location. "Today’s approval marks another step in an important shift toward treating cancers based on their tumor genetics rather than their site of origin in the body," FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in the statement. The first of its kind Until Monday, there had been no treatment for cancers with the TRK gene mutation, the FDA said. The approval of Vitrakvi means that certain types of highly advanced solid tumors that are metastatic (spreading), unable to be surgically removed and do not qualify for other treatments can now be effectively treated. The approval reflects a development in cancer treatment drugs away from body location-specific medicine to treatments based on genetic defects and mutations. It is the first commercial medicine for Loxo, a Connecticut company that develops treatments for genomically defined cancers. Read more:  New blood test could detect eight types of cancer before symptoms show Will the treatment be available immediately? Vitrakvi received an "accelerated approval" from the FDA based on the previous clinical trials. However, further clinical trials are needed to confirm the drug's benefit. The FDA said the sponsor is planning to conduct such studies. Going forward with gene-based medecine: Bayer plans to talk with payers about expanding routine testing for cancer mutations among more cancer patients so that those who could benefit from the new drug can be identified, Reuters reported. Loxo plans to continue developing more cancer drugs based on gene mutation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/384zt Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.