US President Donald Trump on Tuesday said Saudi Arabian complicity in the murder of dissident journalist, and US resident, Jamal Khashoggi would not affect relations between Washington and the Islamic kingdom. "We may never know all of the facts surrounding the murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi. In any case, our relationship is with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia," Trump said. "The United States intends to remain a steadfast partner of Saudi Arabia." Read more: Saudi Arabia defends prince from Khashoggi murder claims Trump has been under pressure to sanction Riyadh as well as Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman, who the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) reportedly concluded was involved in Khashoggi's assassination. "It could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event — maybe he did and maybe he didn't," Trump said. Arms deals under threat Senator Diane Feinstein, a Democrat lawmaker representing California, said she was "shocked" by Trump's decision to withhold any punishment. Instead, she vowed to "vote against any future arms sales and appropriation to Saudi Arabia." "Human rights is more than just a phrase, it has to mean something. And that means standing up and condemning a brazen murder by a foreign government," Feinstein said. "Everyone who played a role in this killing must be held accountable." In his statement, Trump specifically mentioned he would not undermine Saudi defense contracts for US military hardware worth more than $100 billion (€88 billion). Germany, on the other hand, has suspended all arms deals to Saudi Arabia and is set to impose travel bans on 18 Saudi citizens. Read more: Germany's armed forces continue to train Saudi military officers October 2: Prominent journalist Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he had gone to obtain an official document for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. He never emerged from the building, prompting Cengiz, who waited outside, to raise the alarm. October 3: Turkish and Saudi officials came up with conflicting reports on Khashoggi's whereabouts. Riyadh said the journalist had left the mission shortly after his work was done. But Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said the journalist was still in the consulate. October 6: Turkish officials said they believed the journalist was likely killed inside the Saudi consulate. The Washington Post, for which Khashoggi wrote, cited unnamed sources to report that Turkish investigators believe a 15-member team "came from Saudi Arabia" to kill the man. October 8: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on Saudi Arabia to prove that Khashoggi left its consulate in Istanbul. Turkey also sought permission to search the mission premises. US President Donald Trump voiced concern about the journalist's disappearance. October 12: British billionaire Richard Branson halted talks over a $1 billion Saudi investment in his Virgin group's space ventures, citing Khashoggi's case. He also pulled out of an investment conference in Riyadh dubbed the "Davos in the Desert." His move was followed by Uber's Dara Khosrowshahi, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon and a host of other business leaders. October 15: Turkish investigators searched the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The search lasted more than eight hours and investigators removed samples from the building, including soil from the consulate garden and a metal door, one official said. October 19: Saudi Arabia finally admitted that Khashoggi died at the consulate. The kingdom's public prosecutor said preliminary investigations showed the journalist was killed in a "fistfight." He added that 18 people had been detained. A Saudi Foreign Ministry official said the country is "investigating the regrettable and painful incident." October 21: Saudi Arabia provided yet another account of what happened to Khashoggi. The kingdom's foreign minister admitted the journalist was killed in a "rogue operation," calling it a "huge and grave mistake," but insisted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had not been aware of the murder. Riyadh said it had no idea where Khashoggi's body was. October 21: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany would put arms exports to Saudi Arabia on hold for the time being, given the unexplained circumstances of Khashoggi's death. Germany is the fourth largest exporter of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the United States, Britain and France. October 31: The Turkish prosecutor concluded that Khashoggi was strangled to death soon after entering the consulate, and was then dismembered. Another Turkish official later claimed the body was dissolved in acid. Turkish President Erdogan said the order to murder the journalist came from "the highest levels" of Saudi Arabia's government. November 5: Saudi Arabia told the United Nations it would prosecute those responsible for Khashoggi's murder. This came as the United States and dozens of other countries raised the journalist's death before the UN Human Rights Council and called for a transparent investigation. November 8: Khashoggi's fiancee, Hatice Cengiz, wrote on Twitter that she was "unable to express her sorrow" upon learning that the journalist's body was dissolved with chemicals. "Are these killers and those behind it human beings?" she tweeted. Author: Ashutosh Pandey 'Free to murder journalists' Several news outlets and press organizations have condemned Trump's decision, with The Washington Post — Khassoghi's former employer — saying it represents "a betrayal of long-established American values of respect for human rights." Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) executive director Joel Simon said Trump has sent "an appalling message" to Riyadh as well as other countries across the globe. "If you boil the White House statement down to its essence, President Trump has just asserted that if you do enough business with the US, you are free to murder journalists. That's an appalling message to send to Saudi Arabia and the world," said Simon. Read more: Support grows for EU-wide arms embargo on Saudi Arabia Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. ls/rt (AFP, Reuters, AP)