As he revelled in a fifth consecutive Bundesliga clean sheet, Peter Gulacsi noted that this one had come easier than most. "It was a funny game in my eyes, as I didn't really have much to do for large parts," the Hungarian keeper said as Leipzig extended their unbeaten run to 10 league games. In fact, Gulasci didn't make a save until he leapt to his left in the 77th minute to keep out a freekick from substitute Leon Bailey. The fact that someone as gifted as Bailey started on the bench hints at Leverkusen's enviable attacking options, even if the Jamaican has struggled to replicate last season's form in 2018/19. But Leverkusen are not getting enough from any of their talented forward players. Not from Julian Brandt, Kevin Volland, Kai Havertz, Lucas Alario or Paulinho. Most have had their moments, none have been able to deliver consistently. Issues from front to back "There was no structure today, everyone played alone," Volland told Sky after the game. "The ball was often played at the wrong time, too many balls were lost." The German international also said his team were a  "million miles away" from where they should be and that they had "problems at the back". After big wins over Werder Bremen and Borussia Mönchengladbach in the league and cup, Leverkusen had appeared to have shaken off the early season cobwebs. But they again lacked any sort of cohesive tactical plan, made basic errors all over the pitch and visibly gave up after Yusuf Poulsen's second goal sealed the win. Herrlich moved quickly to get Bailey on at half time but then brought on Dominik Kohr for the more attack-minded Charles Aranguiz when chasing the game. Alario was introduced even later when Leipzig were two up. That's now seven goals conceded in the last two games for Leverkusen, two more than Leipzig have conceded in the 10 games since Dortmund beat them 4-1 on the opening day. Rangnick building on solid foundations Ralf Rangnick's charges were everything Herrlich's men were not. Teenage center backs Ibrahima Konate and Dayot Upamecano were muscular, intelligent and clearly well-drilled while Lukas Klostermann continues to state his case to be an option at right back for Germany if Joachim Löw wants Joshua Kimmich in midfield. "Keeping the clean sheet was important," Rangnick said after the game, showing where his priorities lie. "It's important to see how the team is developing. You have to tip your hat to the boys for allowing so little against a team like Leverkusen." The hosts do deserve credit for another solid showing but, in truth, they were never really stretched. Three wins from their first 11 games surely leaves Leverkusen's pre-season Champions League aspirations dead in the water. Herrlich may take some consolation in his team's progress in the German Cup and the Europa League but three wins from 11 in the Bundesliga is far from acceptable. If they don't make it four from 12 after the international break against Stuttgart, Herrlich is in a real relegation battle. If he even makes it that far. Luka Jovic's brace heaped more misery on Schalke, as the Serbian made it nine league goals for the season. After a dull opening half, Jovic latched on to an Ante Rebic through ball to give the hosts the lead just after the hour mark. Rebic almost sealed it soon after but his shot hit the post. That mattered little when Jovic lashed in a second on 73 minutes. Sebastian Haller completed the rout. The Red Bulls made it five Bundesliga matches without conceding as they brushed aside their limp visitors. Yusuf Poulsen (pictured) lifted in a first half opener before a rare Lukas Klostermann goal doubled the lead in the second period. Poulsen wrapped it up late on. Leverkusen have now won just 11 points from their 11 games and the pressure is very much on Heiko Herrlich. Alassane Plea totally stole the show, bagging a hat trick and maintaining Borussia Mönchengladbach's pressure on the league leaders. The second took a lucky deflection, but his first and third were pure quality. Plea has eight goals this season so far. Nuri Sahin's second-half strike for Werder was a mere consolation. Takashi Usami hadn't scored a top-flight goal in the Bundesliga since September 2012, until he broke the deadlock against 10-man Hertha on Saturday. Maximilian Mittelstädt managed to pick up a pair of first-half bookings to put his team on the back foot. Düsseldorf would later stretch their lead and seal all three points, ending a run of six straight defeats. Pick that one out! Jean-Philippe Gbamin's early opener for Mainz was a ferocious low drive from distance. His near-namesake Jean-Philippe Mateta added another later in the first half. For the second game on the bounce, Mainz's Jean-Philippes both notched goals and Mainz held on to keep their good form going. The Swabian drought lasted from October 6 to November 10. Timo Baumgartl's left-footed finish was the club's first goal in more than a month and their first since coach Markus Weinzierl took charge. As with buses, you wait ages for a goal and then two come along at once. Erik Thommy doubled Stuttgart's tally later in the game to keep it close at the foot of the table. Two goals in four days for Andrej Kramaric, who added a Bundesliga goal to his midweek strike from range in the Champions League. Unlike the draw against Lyon, though, Hoffenheim could savor three home points against Augsburg. Hat tip to the evergreen Alfred Finnbogason for a splendid chipped finish on his weaker left foot, though the points go to Nagelsmann's crew thanks to Reiss Nelson. The Bundesliga title race came alive after a thrilling Saturday evening match saw BVB just about come out on top against defending champions Bayern Munich. In a game full of chances and drama, Bayern saw their halftime lead removed by a Marco Reus penalty. Robert Lewandowski added a second moments later, but Reus wasn't done and then it was 2-2. Off the bench, Paco Alcacer scored the winner. Linton Maina's crisp volley set Hannover on course for three crucial points against Wolfsburg. The youngest player on the pitch, playing on his least favored flank, showed top technique on his weaker left foot. Ihlas Bebou had a big night too; he delivered the cross for Maina's goal and then notched one of his own, making amends for a couple of big first-half chances he'd squandered. Author: Mark Hallam