European conservatives have warned Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and his right-wing Fidesz party to respect democracy and the rule of law.  The "emergency" resolution at a meeting of the center-right European People's Party (EPP) on Wednesday did not name Orban or Fidesz explicitly.  But senior EPP officials admitted ahead of the meeting in Helsinki that the resolution was directed at Hungary. Fidesz representatives, who also signed the resolution, dismissed that claim. Hungary's illiberal slide Orban has alarmed some EPP lawmakers by taking a hard-line anti-immigration stance, attacking the media and advocating for an "illiberal democracy." Right-wing governments in other Eastern European countries, including Poland, have followed Hungary's lead, further stoking fears about creeping authoritarianism in Europe. In September, European lawmakers voted to start a probe into whether Hungary is failing to uphold democratic values. The process could lead to sanctions against the Hungarian government. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2w4cm EPP split on Orban Fidesz's status in the EPP has split opinion within the grouping. The two men gunning to become the EPP's choice as lead candidate for the EU elections in May also disagree on the issue. Manfred Weber from the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU) supports keeping Orban and Fidesz within the EPP. He is the favorite to win the nomination and has received the backing of the Hungarian prime minister. But Alexander Stubb, a former Finnish prime minister, had called for throwing Fidesz out of the grouping if its representatives did not sign the emergency resolution. EPP delegates from several conservative parties across the European Union are set to choose the candidate on Thursday. The grouping is the largest in the European Parliament and includes German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Party (CDU). The center-right European People's Party (EPP) - the largest faction in the European Parliament - has picked Manfred Weber, its German parliamentary party leader. He has the backing of Chancellor Angela Merkel. He beat his main rival, Finland's Alexander Stubb. Weber is little known on the international stage, and his language skills are considered poor. Frans Timmermans, the European Commission's first vice president, will lead the campaign for the Progressive Alliance of Socialists & Democrats (S&D). Weber's main rival promises to bring the bloc closer to ordinary voters at a time when Britain's looming exit is one factor behind the nationalist movements across the EU. The third-largest group in the EU Parliament, the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), has just one candidate: Jan Zahradil, chairman of the Czech ECR delegation. The 65-year-old is set to be officially nominated later this month after a party vote. Zahradil was affectionately known as "Forrest Gump" for a short while after cycling from Prague to Strasbourg for a parliamentary session. German MEP Ska Keller is one of several contenders to be one of two lead candidates for the European Greens/European Free Alliance. Keller co-chairs the Greens in the European Parliament and has railed against what she described as "serious human rights violations committed by the Saudi government." The Greens recently made large gains in German regional elections. Bas Eickhout is the second contender to lead the Greens/EFA in the May election. The 42-year-old Dutch MEP has championed a move to cap palm oil use by 2023, then reduce it to zero by 2030. Belgian politician Petra De Sutter is also in the running to be one of two contenders for the European Green Party/EFA in 2019. The 55-year-old is one of the bloc's few openly transgender politicians. Bulgaria's Atanas Schmidt is also still in the running. Author: Keith Walker Europe's 'dark forces' Despite Wednesday's resolution, the leader of the socialist grouping in the European Parliament slammed his EPP opponents for failing to take a stand against Orban and his party. "Conservatives are clearly no longer reliable partners when it comes to fighting the dark forces that are trying to undermine rule of law, democracy and solidarity in Europe," said Udo Bullmann. amp/cmk (AP, Reuters, dpa, AFP) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.