A motorist hit and killed a protester in southeastern France on Saturday during nationwide demonstrations against rising fuel prices, the French Interior Minister said. The "yellow-vest" movement called for people wearing high-visibility jackets to block motorway exits, fuel depots and roundabouts in hundreds of events planned across France. In the southeastern town of Pont-de-Beauvoisin, a female driver panicked when she saw protesters barring the road and accelerated, hitting and killing a woman in her 50s, Interior Minister Christophe Castener said. Almost 50 others were injured in other incidents, officials said. Read more:Paris to ban combustion-engine cars by 2030 Police were deployed to ensure no roads were completely blocked during the protests Nationwide campaign In televised comments, Castener said around 50,000 people were taking part in the backlash against President Emmanuel Macron's fuel tax hikes, adding that police would take action to ensure no roads were completely blocked. Footage posted on social media on Saturday evening showed officers clearing obstructions. The "yellow-vest" protests against petrol and diesel tax increases have also attracted voters who are dissatisfied more generally with Macron's economic reforms. Opposition parties and labor unions also lent their backing to the movement, but were reluctant to join the blockades, citing the involvement of the far-right National Rally (Rassemblement National), previously the Front National. The yellow vests are symbolic: they are required be kept inside all French vehicles in case the driver experiences difficulties. Read more: French farmers picket Total refineries in palm oil protests Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2xVkw In Paris, hundreds of protesters yelling "Macron resign!" and singing the French national anthem, La Marseillaise, massed on the Champs Elysees and the Place de la Concorde, hoping to march toward the Elysee Palace, Macron's official residence. Macron has rejected calls to scrap further tax rises in 2019. But, in an attempt to assuage protesters' concerns, the government last week announced it would offer energy subsidies and a grant of €4,000 ($4,600) for poorer families to replace older, less fuel-efficient vehicles. The tax increases are part of an effort to move away from a reliance on fossil fuel-powered vehicles. kw,nm/ng (Reuters, AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.