Black is the new white at this World Chess Championship. In Game 3 too, the first-move advantage was not enough to produce a victory. On the contrary: As had been the case in the first two games; the player with the white pieces eventually found himself on the defensive, as the defending world champion, Magnus Carlsen, took command in the later stages of the contest. "That was very unpleasant, because I had to deal withCarlsen's many ideas at once," the Norwegian's American challenger, Fabiano Caruana (pictured above), said afterwards. Tension before the time control  The game reached its critical moment just before the time control on the 40th move. Carlsen moved his knight forward, putting psychological pressure on his opponent, because Caruana had to decide in the few remaining minutes, whether he should take Carlsen's knight or let it penetrate into his position. But once again, Caruana stayed cool, beating the knight with his bishop to further simplify his situation – with success. After 49 moves, the world's two best chess players settled on another draw. "I think Carlsen could have tortured me a little bit more," a relaxed-looking Caruana told reporters at the post-game press conference. However, the defending champion was less satisfied, saying he had been in a slightly worse position at the beginning, before his position improved somewhat. "But I was too impatient," Carlsen said, "so I'm a bit disappointed now." Still waiting for a first victory After this third draw, the score in London stands at 1.5 to 1.5 points – with the title to go to whichever man is the first to earn 6.5 points. Drawn games are not uncommon at the highest level of chess and they are especially common at World Championships, as the well-prepared players look to exploit their opponent's mistakes, particularly in the early games. And so it is again this time: Magnus Carlsen described the situation after the third game as being bogged down. Later on Tuesday, with the white pieces, Carlsen will have the opening move. By then, his assistants – supported by powerful computers – will hope to have come up with some new ideas to try to help the champion convert his first-move advantage into the first full point of this World Championship. American Western actor John Wayne (right) was an enthusiastic chess player. German film diva Marlene Dietrich (left) is said to have always traveled with a huge chess board. The board game was particularly popular among Hollywood stars in the 1930s to 1950s. Dietrich and Wayne are pictured here in 1942 on the set of the film "Pittsburgh." Humphrey Bogart, as café owner Rick Blaine (left), sits intently at the chess board. The classic scene in "Casablanca" (1942) remains unforgettable. Bogart was an avid chess player off camera as well. He got lessons from US chess champ Herman Steiner. German poet and director Bertolt Brecht, pictured here around 1942, regularly played chess. After fleeing the Nazis, he lived in exile in Denmark. During the summers of 1934, 1936 and 1938, he was visited by his friend Walter Benjamin, who was living in exile in Paris, and the two would duel each other at the checkered board together every day. Chess is not only popular in films, but also in comics — like this edition of Lucky Luke. The Western hero drawn by Belgian cartoonist Morris is famous for drawing his pistol faster than his own shadow can. But speed isn't necessarily an advantage when it comes to playing chess. British musician Sting, founder of the band Police, went up against Russian chess champion Garry Kasparov in New York in 2000. Their match was even broadcast on Times Square. The duel was a charity meant to raise money for a rain forest protection organization that Sting had supported. Author: Klaudia Prevezanos (kbm)