Saif-ul-Mulook, the lawyer for Aasiya Noreen — better known as Asia Bibi — said on Saturday he was not surprised when Islamist hard-liners appealed against her acquittal on blasphemy charges. She has also been put on a no-fly list, to prevent her leaving the country. Mulook said that the Islamist response was "unfortunate but not unexpected," and criticized the actions of the government, headed by Prime Minister Imran Khan, who had initially appeared to back the court's acquittal judgment. An agreement made with protest leaders on Friday specified the government would not object to an appeal against Bibi's acquittal. "What's painful is the response of the government. They cannot even implement an order of the country's highest court," Mulook said. He added, "The struggle for justice must continue." Bibi's lawyer Saif-ul-Mulook has left Pakistan after receiving death threats Acquitted but still in jail Bibi, a Roman Catholic former farmhand from a rural village in Punjab, remains in jail, where she had been on death row since 2010. Pakistan's Supreme Court acquitted Bibi of all charges on Wednesday because of insufficient evidence. The court's acquittal decision led to three days of protests, and the filing of an appeal against her acquittal by Islamist extremists. "We have requested the Supreme Court put Asia Bibi on the Exit Control List as soon as possible so that she could not fly out of the country," said the lawyer who filed the case against Bibi. "We fear that she would be flown out of the country so we have asked the court for an early hearing of the case." The lawyer added he would "exploit all legal remedies to make sure Asia Bibi is hanged according to the law," despite the acquittal from the country's highest court. Bibi's whereabouts are being kept secret. Shahid Saleem Baig, Inspector-General of Prisons in Punjab province told DW: "Asia Bibi is in jail and her location can not be disclosed for security reasons amid public sentiments raised by religious zealots demanding the court to reverse its verdict." In 2009, Asia Bibi was accused of insulting the Prophet Muhammad while she was working in a field in Punjab's Sheikhupura district. The Muslim women who were working with Bibi objected to her fetching water, saying that as a non-Muslim she was not allowed to touch the water bowl. The women then complained to a local cleric and leveled blasphemy charges against Bibi. According to local media, the argument in the field led to a mob attack on Bibi's house. Later, police took Bibi into custody and launched an investigation into the blasphemy accusations. Blasphemy is a sensitive issue in Pakistan, where 97 percent of the population is Muslim. The blasphemy law was introduced by General Zia-ul-Haq, a military dictator, in the 1980s. Activists say they are often implemented in cases that have little to do with blasphemy and are used to settle petty disputes and personal vendettas. Christians, Hindus and Ahmadis — a minority Islamic sect — are often victimized as a result. In 2010, a lower court convicted Bibi of blasphemy. Although the defense lawyer argued that the blasphemy allegations were made to settle personal scores, the court sentenced Bibi to death by hanging. Bibi's family has been living under constant fear since 2010. Her husband, Ashiq Masih (R), says he has been fighting a battle for his wife's freedom ever since. In 2010, Salman Taseer (R), the then governor of Punjab province, backed Bibi and demanded amendments in the blasphemy laws. Taseer's anti-blasphemy law position angered extremists. In 2011, Taseer was gunned down by his own bodyguard in Islamabad. The same year, Shahbaz Bhatti, the then minister for minorities and a prominent blasphemy law critic, was also assassinated by unidentified gunmen. After Taseer's murder, Qadri became a hero for Pakistani Islamists. Qadri was showered with rose petals by right-wing groups as he was taken to jail by the authorities. Qadri was sent to the gallows in 2016. Thousands of people – mostly supporters of Islamic groups – attended Qadri's funeral. Local media reported that Qadri's supporters built a shrine after his death to honor him. After the killings of blasphemy law critics, many lawyers refused to take up Bibi's case in the higher courts. In 2014, the Lahore High Court upheld her death sentence. Pakistan's top court, the Supreme Court, was scheduled to hear Bibi's appeal against the conviction in 2016, but one judge refused to be a part of the judicial bench, citing personal reasons. According to the American Centre for Law and Justice, at least 40 Pakistanis were sentenced to death on blasphemy charges in 2016. The law is often used to target religious minorities and secular Muslims. Although there hasn't been any legal execution under the blasphemy law, there have been instances where angry mobs have lynched alleged blasphemers. Pakistan's Christians and other religious minorities complain of legal and social discrimination in their country. In the past few years, many Christians and Hindus have been brutally murdered over unproven blasphemy allegations. Religious extremists in Pakistan, particularly the Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) group, have warned the authorities against reversing Bibi's blasphemy verdict. The country's Christian minority fears that if the judges decide to reverse the death sentence, they could face a violent backlash from the country's hardline Islamic groups. Rights groups and Western governments demand a fair trial in Bibi's case. In 2015, Bibi's daughter met with Pope Francis, who offered prayers for her mother at the Vatican. In 2014, Amnesty International dubbed the Lahore High Court's verdict against Bibi a "grave injustice." The American Centre for Law and Justice also condemned Bibi's sentence and urged Islamabad to protect religious minorities. Author: Onkar Singh Janoti Lawyer in exile Bibi's lawyer said he would be continuing his work on her behalf from outside Pakistan, after receiving death threats. "In the current scenario, it's not possible for me to live in Pakistan," the 62-year-old lawyer said before boarding a plane to Europe on Saturday. "I need to stay alive as I still have to fight the legal battle for Asia Bibi." Concerning his client's safety, Mulook said, "Her life would be more or less the same, either inside a prison or in solitary confinement for security fears" until a decision on the appeal against her acquittal. Bibi's husband and their five children had been the only Christians in their village. He has been forced to move regularly for his family's safety. Militant Islamists who regard blasphemy as a heinous crime have increased their political strength in Pakistan in recent months. Not only did the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan party (TLP) lead three days of protests, it also polled more than 2.23 million votes in the July elections. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2udu6 jm/rc (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 