Deutsche Welle: The Brexit clock is ticking. Are you sitting on a packed suitcase; or are you more optimistic? Axel Scheffler: We don't have a clue what to expect. There is no deal, maybe even no prospect of a deal. The uncertainty today, weeks before Brexit is scheduled to go ahead on March 29, is just as great as it was at the start. So I haven't packed my suitcases yet, and hope we'll get off lightly, or that there will be a miracle. At the occasion of the British Book Awards in May, you won Illustrator of the Year and gave a touching acceptance speech. Why did you say that the award felt like a consolation prize or even a farewell gift? That was a bit polemical. Of course I won't have to leave the UK, or be kicked out. I expect I will be able to stay. But it is painful to see my guaranteed right as an EU citizen to live here being questioned. Read more: How a 'hard' Brexit might affect the arts and culture A hungry Gruffalo!: But its German, London-based creator is feeling unsettled as Brexit approaches You gave the Gruffalo its face and children all over the world love the monster. Would there be a Gruffalo if Britain weren't part of the EU? I did in fact say, a bit provocatively, no Gruffalo without the EU — which of course is not the case because Julia (the author Julia Donaldson) would have written the story without me and found another illustrator. But the EU gave me the chance to say quite easily, I'm off to college in the UK; and later on, to decide to stay here. I've spent half of my life here, that was possible, no bureaucracy involved. Without the EU, things probably would have been different, I wouldn't be here. The Gruffalo wouldn't have existed in its present form. Read more: Brexit: The day the music died You are one of the most successful storybook illustrators worldwide. Why would you care about Brexit? A lot about the EU bothers me, too — but I am still a staunch European. Apart from my work, I want Europe to stay united, work together and I want there to be peace. The EU is a guarantor for peace, at least it has been so far. That's why I care about Brexit. How will Brexit harm the UK? (Note the illustrator's cartoon top of the article) In every possible aspect imaginable, there will be negative consequences for the UK. We had a good deal with the EU. Exiting the EU will have negative consequences for Europe and the UK alike that are completely unnecessary. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2WXbc How will it affect you personally? For one, because we don't know what the accord is going to look like. That affects my daily life: I work in Germany and the UK, which is not easy from a taxation point of view. Brexit could make everything even more complicated, I might have to fill out a customs form for every package I send, for instance. I also travel a lot, my partner is French and we spend a lot of time in Germany and France. We don't know whether that will continue to be so unproblematic. Or take healt care — the National Health Service is cost-free for all EU citizens who live here. All of the above impacts my family's everyday lives. And even if it is not far off, we have no idea what next year will look like. What about the business side of things? In that sense, Brexit probably won't have much of an impact on me, international licensing is bound to continue somehow. But the publishers have logistical problems — buying paper might become more difficult. Then, there is the matter of the currency: The British Pound has devalued greatly since the referendum, which at first sight is a good thing for British publishers because it would be cheaper for a German publisher, for instance, to buy a book in the UK. On the other hand, the British publishers must spend more to have the books printed in the Far East. So it does have a consequence for the publishing world. Axel Scheffler wants Europe to stay united Read more:  Brexit causing concern for business on both sides of the Irish border What are your plans in the event of a "hard" Brexit? I don't have a plan yet. I haven't applied for British citizenship, and I certainly can't see why I should. But looking ahead, there is a children's book fair in Bologna next year, and it is not even clear whether British Airways planes will still be allowed to land in Italy. If there's no deal, that would have disastrous consequences. How tough things could become is slowly dawning on the Brits. Hamburg-born Axel Scheffler , an illustrator and children's book author, has lived in London since 1982. He and British writer Julia Donaldson wrote the bestselling The Gruffalo, which has sold more than ten million copies worldwide and been translated into more than 40 languages. May became prime minister after David Cameron resigned from the post in the wake of the Brexit referendum vote in June 2016. Despite her position, she has struggled to define what kind of Brexit her government wants. Hardliners within her Conservative party want her to push for a clean break. Others want Britain to stay close to the bloc. The EU itself has rejected many of May's Brexit demands. The leader of the British Labour Party has no formal role in the Brexit talks, but he is influential as the head of the main opposition party. Labour has tried to pressure the Conservative government, which has a thin majority in Parliament, to seek a "softer" Brexit. But Corbyn's own advocacy has been lukewarm. The long-time leftist voted for the UK to leave the European Community (EC) in 1975. Boris Johnson's turbulent two years as UK foreign secretary came to an abrupt end with his resignation on July 9. The conservative had been a key face for the Leave campaign during the 2016 referendum campaign. Johnson disapproves of the "soft Brexit" sought by PM May, arguing that a complete break from the EU might be preferable. He became the second Cabinet member within 24 hours to quit... David Davis headed Britain's Department for Exiting the EU and was the country's chief negotiator in the talks before he quit on July 8, less than 24 hours before Downing Street announced Boris Johnson's departure. Davis had long opposed Britain's EU membership and was picked for the role for this reason. Davis was involved in several negotiating rounds with his EU counterpart, Michel Barnier. Theresa May appointed euroskeptic Dominic Raab the morning after Brexit Secretary David Davis resigned. Raab, a staunchly pro-Brexit lawmaker, was formerly Davis' chief of staff. He previously worked for a Palestinian negotiator in the Oslo peace process and as an international lawyer in Brussels advising on European Union and World Trade Organization law. Jeremy Hunt was Britain's Health Secretary until he replaced Boris Johnson as foreign secretary in early July 2018. The 51-year-old supported Britain remaining in the European Union during the 2016 referendum, but said in late 2017 that he had changed his mind in response to the "the arrogance of the EU Commission" during Brexit talks. He has vowed to help get Britain a "great Brexit deal." Nigel Farage was the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) until July 2016. Under his stewardship, the party helped pressure former Prime Minister David Cameron into calling the EU referendum. He was also a prominent activist in the Leave campaign in the lead-up to the vote. Farage still has some influence over Brexit talks due to his popularity with pro-Leave voters. Businessman Arron Banks is a friend of Nigel Farage, and donated a significant sum to the former UKIP leader's Leave.EU campaign – making him the group's biggest financial backer. He had several meetings with Russian officials ahead of the referendum, but has denied allegations of collusion with Moscow in the Brexit vote, branding the claims a "political witch hunt." EU Commission President Juncker (left) and EU Council President Tusk (right) share two of the bloc's highest posts. Juncker heads the EU's executive. Tusk represents the governments of the 27 EU countries — the "EU 27." Both help formulate the EU's position in Brexit negotiations. What Tusk says is particularly noteworthy: His EU 27 masters — not the EU commission — must agree to any Brexit deal. The former French foreign minister and European commissioner has become a household name across the EU since his appointment as the bloc's chief Brexit negotiator in October 2016. Despite his prominence, Barnier has limited room to maneuver. He is tasked with following the EU 27's strict guidelines and must regularly report back to them during the negotiations. The Irish PM has been one of the most important EU 27 leaders in Brexit talks. Britain has said it will leave the EU's customs union and single market. That could force the Republic of Ireland, an EU member, to put up customs checks along the border with Northern Ireland, a British province. But Varadkar's government has repeatedly said the return of a "hard" border is unacceptable. The leaders of the EU 27 governments have primarily set the EU's negotiating position. They have agreed to the negotiating guidelines for chief negotiator Barnier and have helped craft the common EU position for Tusk and Juncker to stick to. The individual EU 27 governments can also influence the shape of any Brexit outcome because they must unanimously agree to a final deal. Author: Alexander Pearson