The world is seeing widespread malnutrition caused not only by people not having enough food, but also having too much food that is bad for them, according to the latest Global Nutrition Report. The independently produced report, which shows Africa to be the region that is hit hardest by both forms of malnutrition, said diet was a higher risk factor for health than air pollution or even smoking. The report was presented at a global food conference in the Thai capital, Bangkok, on Thursday. Read more: Breakfast with coffee good way to prevent Type 2 diabetes Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38Hyl What are key findings of the report? Fatal consequences "What we're eating is killing us. So something needs to get us back on track with our food system," said Jessica Fanzo, a professor at Johns Hopkins University in the US and a lead author of the report.   The report's authors called malnutrition in whatever form a problem that negatively impacted development "with unacceptable human consequences." They cited increases in childhood deaths and the number of disabled adults as huge burdens on societies and economies. Read more: Fast and fattening: How frozen pizza is killing Germans Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37VS6 Spotlight on Africa The report showed Africa to be the region most affected by all forms of malnutrition, sometimes in combination. Thirty of 41 countries hit by three forms of malnutrition — stunting among children, anemia in women of child-bearing age and excessive weight in women — are in Africa, it said. The report also pointed to the fact that while stunting among under-fives was on the decline globally, it was still increasing on the continent, with numbers growing from 50.6 million in 2000 to 58.7 million in 2017. Read more: Ghana's obesity problem tied in with junk food What is the solution? The authors of the study suggested taking an integrated approach to all forms of malnutrition from undernutrition to obesity. This would involve promoting the collection and assessment of relevant data; investing in nutrition plans; encouraging healthy diets and committing to nutrition targets. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33Bx6 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.