The first day of the G20 summit in Buenos Aires wrapped up Friday evening, the air heavy with lingering uncertainties over whether the attending leaders from industrialized nations would be able to agree upon a final statement before the end of the summit. At the summit's opening, Argentine President Mauricio Macri made a plea for world leaders to have a "sense of urgency" and take actions "based on shared interests." But over the course of the day, divisions over the Paris climate accord and the World Trade Organization were palpable, with the United States singled out for impeding progress on finding common global solutions. An official in the French president's office said a final statement may include language that sets the US apart from the 19 other attending nations, while a US official said that the White House was "optimistic" about the document. Argentine officials also voiced progress, saying that trade talks had moved forward over the course of the day. Read more: G20: What is it and how does it work? The trade war between the United States and China, Russian aggression in Ukraine, and the suspected involvement of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman in the slaying of dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi have been contentious issues so far. High-stakes bilateral meetings began on Friday and will continue over Saturday, with US President Donald Trump's meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, as well as with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, to be in particular focus. Merkel will meet Saturday with Vladimir Putin, while Trump canceled a planned one-on-one with the Russian president. The chancellor had to reschedule her meetings for Saturday after technical problems with the government plane caused her delayed arrival. Read more: German military under fire over Angela Merkel's plane problems G20 leaders smile and wave for the official 'family photo' in Buenos Aires What happened on day 1: That's what the black posters say as they call for a national protest of rejection against the G20 and the International Monetary Fund (IMF, in Spanish FMI). Angela Merkel arrived late after technical issues forced her to switch planes. She joined the leaders of other industrialized nations such as China, Russia, and the US, at an annual summit on world trade that also draws counterprotesters. Argentina is the first South American nation to host the G20 summit, and national officials said they would not tolerate violence or disruptions. Last year's summit in Hamburg featured violent and destructive protests as police struggled to contain militant anti-capitalist demonstrators. Some 22,000 Argentine police were standing at the ready in case the weekend protests escalated. Police, coast guard and border patrol officers roped off a 12-square-kilometer (5-square-mile) area near the Buenos Aires convention center, where the summit is taking place. Much of the capital was placed on lockdown, with public transport suspended. Argentine politicians recommended locals leave town ahead of expected protests by labor unions, rights groups and left-leaning activists. Left-wing activists from France, Germany, Italy and other countries came to Buenos Aires to protest what they see as free-trade practices that are detrimental to individuals' well-being around the world. Some painted themselves as national flags. Many protesters took aim at Trump, chanting, "Go away Trump" and creating effigies of the US president, such as this rendition above made of recycled materials. An inflatable blimp showing a baby Trump in a diaper, like the one that flew over London this summer, also made an appearance. While foreign officials say Trump is blocking global trade, protesters accuse him of exploitative capitalism. Author: Cristina Burack Saudi crown prince As the day got underway, Putin and the Saudi crown prince raised eyebrows when they exchanged a high-five and shook hands, laughing together as they took their seats alongside each other at a plenary session. Other leaders avoided the crown prince, who appeared towards the edge of the official "family photo" of leaders. The de facto Saudi leader denies having prior knowledge of Khashoggi's killing at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October. Trump's office confirmed that he "exchanged pleasantries" with the crown prince, but the US president did not appear to acknowledge Salman or Putin in front of the cameras. French President Emmanuel Macron and Xi were also seen speaking with the prince on the summit's sidelines. DW's Bernd Riegert reported from Buenos Aires that a local TV channel invited a therapist onto a show who tried to make sense of the gestures and body language of the attendees as they met with one another. Read more: Opinion: G20 — go back to the roots Read more: Russia-Ukraine skirmishes: Storm warning on the Black Sea Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/39B61 nm/sms (AFP, dpa, AP, Reuters)