Ryanair on Thursday announced it had reached an agreement with German union Verdi over a wage dispute with German cabin crew. The Irish airline launched an offensive to strike several labor accords with unions across Europe ahead of the holiday season after facing a series of strikes. Read more: EU scrutinizes Ryanair deal with Frankfurt-Hahn Airport What's the deal? Read more: Being a pilot isn't what it used to be Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32vqZ What did Ryanair say? Eddie Wilson, the airline's chief people officer, said Ryanair is "pleased to sign this CLA agreement with Verdi, which will lead to pay improvements and other benefits for our German-based cabin crew, subject to them voting in favor of this agreement over the coming week." "These are further concrete signs of the substantial progress Ryanair is making in concluding agreements with our people and their unions in many different EU countries." Why now? Ryanair has been hit by a series of strikes that have forced the airline to cancel hundreds of flights during peak seasons, resulting in significant economic costs. Ryanair employees have justified industrial action against the airline by accusing it of failing to provide adequate pay and benefits. The Irish airline is hoping to secure as many deals as possible before the holiday season begins in December. Read more: Ryanair seeks soft landing as strikes continue Ryanair employees have demanded that the airline abide by German labor law What is the next step? Verdi cabin crew members will vote on the deal before the end of the month. If it fails to receive approval, it would mean back to the drawing board for Ryanair and the union. Each evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. A Germanwings Airbus A320 crashed into the French Alps on March 24, 2015 during a flight from Barcelona to Dusseldorf. All 144 passengers and six crew members were killed. A co-pilot with mental problems intentionally crashed the plane. Rebels in eastern Ukraine were accused of shooting down Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on July 17, 2014 during a flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. All 298 people on board died, 193 of them Dutch. A Dutch investigation found pro-Russian rebels shot the plane down with a Buk surface-to-air missile launched from separatist territory in eastern Ukraine. A Polish air force plane carrying President Lech Kaczynski crashed near the Russian airport of Smolensk on April 10, 2010. A Russian and Polish investigation found pilot error during landing in thick fog caused the crash that killed more than 90 people. Jaroslaw Kaczynski (pictured), the twin brother of Lech and leader of the ruling PiS, has suggested the crash was a political assassination. An Air France flight from Rio de Janeiro to Paris crashed in the Atlantic on June 1, 2009, killing all 228 people on board. It took nearly two years for the black box (pictured) to be recovered from the bottom of the ocean. The investigation found a combination of technical and pilot error caused the crash. A Spanair MD-82 plane crashed after take-off from Madrid airport on August 20, 2008, killing 154 people. Amazingly, 18 people survived the crash and subsequent fire. The crash was caused by an improper flap and slat configuration and a failure of the pilots to follow a pre-flight checklist. A Russian passenger plane operated by Pulkovo Aviation Enterprise crashed near the eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk on August 22, 2006, killing all 170 people aboard. The plane was flying from St. Petersburg to the Black Sea resort of Anapa. A Helios Airways flight from Cyprus crashed on August 14, 2005 near its destination Athens, killing all 121 on board. The crash was caused by a loss of cabin pressurization that immobilized the crew. The plane flew on autopilot until it ran out of fuel and crashed. On October 8, 2001 a Scandinavian Airlines MD-87 airliner collided with a small Cessna on take-off from Milan's Linate Airport. All 114 people on the SAS and Cessna aircraft were killed, as were four people on the ground. The accident happened in thick fog. The SAS plane crashed into a hangar. On July 25, 2000 a Air France Concorde flight from Paris to New York crashed two minutes after take-off, killing 109 people on board and four people on the ground. The crash was caused by the Concorde running over a piece of debris on the runway, which sent tire debris into part of the fuel tank that burst into flames.