Polling stations opened on Sunday in eastern Ukrainian regions governed by Kremlin-backed rebels in defiance of calls on Moscow by the West to halt elections seen as hampering efforts to end a more than four-year-long conflict. Voters are choosing heads of government and members of the legislature in the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics, set up by separatists amid a war in which more than 10,000 people have died since 2014. The acting leader of the Donetsk republic, Denis Pushilin, 37, known as a former operator of the Russian MMM Ponzi scam, in which an estimated 5 to 10 million people lost their savings, is a favorite to win the Donetsk poll. Leonid Pasechnik, 48, the former regional chief of the Ukrainian security service and acting leader of the neighboring Luhansk republic, is expected to easily win there. Both have pledged closer ties with Moscow. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/374o0 Disputed legitimacy EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc saw the polls in the Donbass region as "illegal and illegitimate," while the US special envoy to Ukraine, Kurt Volker, described them as a "mockery" that contravened Western-brokered peace agreements. Although a 2015 accord aimed at ending the war calls for local elections, Kyiv and the West dispute the legitimacy of Sunday's poll as it is being carried out away from Ukraine's control. Many analysts say the polls are meant to strengthen Russia's grip on the region. Moscow, however, says the elections are necessary to restore order in the region after the leader of the Donetsk republic, Alexander Zakharchenko, was killed in a bomb attack in Donetsk in August. Although heavy fighting has ceased in eastern Ukraine, soldiers and civilians still die regularly in sporadically flaring violence. First results from Sunday's election are expected on Monday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2ywjt tj/rc (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.