Usain Bolt's attempt to become a soccer professional in Australia came to an end on Friday as his trial with the Central Coast Mariners was terminated after the two sides failed to reach commercial terms. "The Central Coast Mariners and Usain Bolt's representative Ricky Simms can today advise that the indefinite training period of Usain Bolt with the Mariners has drawn to an end, effective immediately," the Australian club said in a statement. The eight-time Olympic sprint champion spent eight weeks on trial with the Mariners before the Gosford-based side began its A-League campaign. His one and only start for the club in an exhibition against Macarthur South West United, a local amateur club, drew thousands of spectators and his two goals generated headlines worldwide. But the performance didn't lead to a deal between the two sides. The Mariners reportedly offered Bolt, 32, a contract worth 150,000 Australian dollars (€94,700, $110,000), a figure the Australian football association was helping to fund. His management team, which was reportedly seeking 3 million Australian dollars, rejected the offer. "Despite several promising potential partners, both Bolt [and] the Central Coast Mariners have amicably concluded that they will not be able to settle on a suitable deal in a timely manner," the club's statement read. Mariners' owner Mike Charlesworth says "It has been a pleasure to work with Usain as he pursued his desire to become a professional football player. This has been a mutually beneficial partnership that brought an increased level of excitement and attention to both the Mariners and the A-League." Whether sprint superstar Usain Bolt can really launch a career in football to match his exploits on the track remains to been – but it's not stopped the 31-year-old Jamaican from dreaming. After training – and scoring a header – with Borussia Dortmund on Thursday, BVB coach Peter Stöger said that Bolt has talent "but he's still got work to do if he wants to make it at the very top." Michael "Air" Jordan: a basketball legend, named the "best basketball player of all time" by the NBA. After ending his Chicago Bulls career however, Jordan swapped his sneakers for a baseball bat, playing professionally for the Birmingham Barons. But after failing to make it to the Major League, he continued his basketball career. West German speed skater Eric Heiden shot to stardom at the 1980 Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, winning gold in all five skating disciplines. After hanging up his skates, Heiden jumped into the saddle and became a professional cyclist, winning the US National Road Race Championships in 1985. He competed in the Tour de France a year later but retired injured after stage 18. East German speed skater Christa Luding-Rothenburger also swapped the ice for the road and was even more successful than Eric Heiden. As a speed skater, she won Olympic goal for the former GDR in 1984 and 1988. As a cyclist, she became the sprint world champion in 1986 and added Olympic silver in 1988. Manni Burgsmüller scored 213 goals in a prolific professional football career with Borussia Dortmund, Werder Bremen, Rot-Weiß Essen and Nuremberg. Later, he took up the American version of football with the Rhein Fire in Düsseldorf, becoming the oldest American football pro in the world at the age of 52. Sven Hannawald made ski-jumping history when he won all four jumps at the Four Hills Tournament in 2002. He also won four world championship golds plus one Olympic gold in 2002. At the end of his career, he switched to motorsport where he celebrated several podium finishes. Paolo Maldini played for Italian giants AC Milan for 25 years, winning seven Serie A titles and five European Cups. He enjoys such legendary status at the club that his number three jersey has been retired in his honor. After hanging up his boots, he tried his luck as a tennis pro – but with less success. Luc Alphand is a high-speed specialist in various disciplines. The Frenchman won 12 downhill world cups – including three on the legendary Kitzbühel strip. Alphand's need for speed continued after his skiing career as he came second in the 2005 Dakar Rally. A year later, he went one better and won the prestigious race. Author: Stefan Nestler (Matt Ford) dv/bw (AFP, Reuters)