In February 2018, Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani announced a peace offer to the Taliban. The move was criticized by some in Afghanistan who said Ghani was displaying weakness. Despite this criticism, the Afghan president stood by his offer and even offered to recognize the Taliban as a political party and engage in unconditional talks with the militant group. Ghani went on to announce a truce during the summer followed by a meeting of clerics, who had issued a fatwa condemning militant violence as un-Islamic. All the Taliban offered in return was a three-day ceasefire. At that time, it seemed like Kabul wanted to take any chance to meet with Taliban representatives in order to convince the group of ending its war with the western-backed Afghan government. However, in contrast to this apparent willingness for dialogue, the Afghan government decided not to attend a peace conference hosted by Russia in Moscow on Friday, which was attended by a Taliban delegation and a mid-level group from Afghanistan's High Peace Council. No high-ranking Afghan government officials from Kabul attended the meeting, a move that observers say has undermined any chance for progress. The conference, originally planned for September 4, was postponed at the request of Afghan government officials who said they needed more time to prepare. Now, after more than two months, it seems the Afghan government has failed to make any use of a rare chance to hold direct talks with the Taliban. Did Kabul undermine the Moscow conference? Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov shakes hands with a member of a Taliban delegation in Moscow on November 9 "Kabul did almost nothing to make the meeting a success, on the contrary, there were active efforts to make sure it failed," Wahid Muzhdah, a former Taliban official based in Kabul, told DW. Muzhdah claimed that the Russian embassy in Kabul had revoked invitation letters to a number of prominent Afghan politicians including Hamid Karzai, the former president. "They all wanted to attend the conference but could not do so because Kabul intervened and asked the Russians to cancel their invitations," he added. This claim was rejected both by the Afghan foreign ministry and Hamid Karzai's own spokesperson. Read more: Taliban advance causes disappointment in Afghan government "As a result of talks between Kabul and Moscow, as well as negotiations between the Afghan government and influential figures including the former president, it was decided that the High Peace Council delegation would represent Afghanistan, which the former president fully approved," Yusuf Saha, a spokesperson for Hamid Karzai, told DW. The meeting in Moscow was organized and chaired by Russia, which indicates that the Taliban are straightening ties with other regional players on top of its historic supporter, Pakistan. The US and the Afghan government do not want to share credit for a future peace deal with other counties – especially Russia. "In the larger context of world politics and rivalries between Russians and Americans, Washington does not want Moscow to play a big role in the Afghan peace negotiations," Kabul University lecturer Khalid Sadat, told DW, adding that the current White House wants its own peace efforts to yield results. Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Afghan peace must be led by Afghans Former US ambassador to Afghanistan, and Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmai Khalilzad, was tasked by US President Donald Trump's administration to strike a deal with the Taliban. Despite his recent meetings with representatives of the group in Qatar, along with Pakistani and Afghan officials, Khalilzad has not been able to break the deadlock facing the Afghan reconciliation process. For any direct peace talks to take place, the Taliban continues to demand that NATO sets a withdrawal date for of all its troops from Afghanistan. Until then, the Taliban has said it will not hold peace talks with Kabul. On the other hand, President Ghani's government insists that any peace talks with the Taliban should be led and owned by Afghans. Read more: The job hazards of an Afghan district governor "Any peace effort in any country must recognize Afghanistan's leadership and ownership in the peace process," Afghan foreign ministry spokesman Sebghatullah Ahmadi said, adding that this was why the Afghan government did not attend Friday's Moscow meeting. In any case, Afghanistan's decision to skip the conference turned the event in to just another failed attempt at bringing the conflicting Afghan parties to peace talks. Sadat from Kabul University is of the view that Kabul's current position and its efforts to undermine peace efforts by countries like Russia will only prolong the war in Afghanistan. "I believe as a country in need of peace, we should not miss any chance to talk with the Taliban," Sadat said. "As more time goes by, the price for peace increases for Afghans." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zVZd 