Bayer Leverkusen 2-0 Stuttgart, BayArena (Volland 76', 83') For long periods this game had been Leverkusen's season in a microcosm. Domination of possession, several chances created, but a lack of composure in front of goal. That scenario played out time and time again as the three points gradually slipped away from a Leverkusen side whose domestic under-achievement can be rivalled only by Schalke this season. Leverkusen rode their luck too. Stuttgart's Pablo Maffeo smartly got away from Julian Brandt and Tin Jedvaj before being upended in the box by Charles Aranguiz. Nothing was given, despite the clear trip, and those are the kinds of decisions that are not helping Stuttgart's cause as they recorded another defeat, making their victory at Nuremberg last time out look more like an anomaly than the start of a revival. For Markus Weinzierl, it's back to the drawing board. When Leverkusen break, they do so with speed and purpose and it's hard to fathom why Friday night's victory only takes them to 10th, when they have the players to be in the top four.  Chances came and went for Leverkusen, who grew increasingly desperate as the second half wore on. A slick counter-attack saw Brandt feed Karim Bellarabi, whose low cross from the left was begging to be converted — but Volland couldn't direct the ball into the gaping net. Volland settled the game in Leverkusen's favor with a thumping volley. But Volland eventually proved Leverkusen's savior. His knack of being in the right place at the right time was this time matched by his knack for scoring vital goals, and his header from close range after a short corner was met with relief around a sparsely filled BayArena. Rather than protect their slender lead and grind out the win, the 76th minute opener liberated the hosts, who played the remainder of the game like they had something to prove. Pouring forward at every opportunity, Leverkusen overwhelmed Stuttgart in the final minutes and the visitors had no way of keeping out Volland's second, when it came with seven minutes to play. The striker didn't break stride as a he received Kai Havertz's cross from the right to lash in a thumping volley. The result, while deserved on the balance of play, was a little flattering to a Heiko Herrlich's side, who made heavy weather of it for long periods. And had a key mistake by the officials not gone against Stuttgart, this may had been when Stuttgart were celebrating drawing level on points with their opponents. A win is a win, but this one will do little to silence Leverkusen's doubters. Kevin Volland struck two late goals as Bayer Leverkusen turned one point into three against Bundesliga cellar-dwellers Stuttgart. The game had been drifting towards a goalless draw before Volland atoned for a big miss to score twice and send Leverkusen into mid-table. Borussia Dortmund head to Mainz looking to keep their four-point cushion at the top of the Bundesliga intact. But Lucien Favre's side face a challenge in the shape of Mainz, who have won their last two in the league, against Werder Bremen and Freiburg. Mainz scored five in those two games and Dortmund will be eager to maintain their momentum with the winter break in sight. Bayern Munich are back in action after their last outing saw them defeated in a classic Klassiker in Dortmund. That's left Niko Kovac's side languishing in fifth but they could climb back up to third if they can see off Fortuna Düsseldorf, who are second bottom. But the visitors to the Allianz Arena stopped the rot last time out with a resounding 4-1 win over Hertha, so confidence should be up. Saturday's late game sees struggling Schalke face a Nuremberg side who could go three points clear of Domenico Tedesco's side with victory at the Veltins Arena. It's been a tough season domestically for Schalke, whose tally of 8 goals scored is the joint lowest in the Bundesliga. Nüremberg are also also struggling for goals, which could make for an attritional battle in Gelsenkirchen.