In a letter to German authorities, the Central Council of Muslims in Germany (ZDM), said that Berlin must offer asylum to Asia Bibi, a Pakistani-Christian woman woman facing threats to her life after being acquitted of blasphemy. The ZMD, which is a major association for German Muslims with up to 20,000 members, hailed the Pakistani Supreme Court's October 31 verdict to overturn Bibi's 2010 death sentence. Aiman ​​Mazyek, the council's chairman, also invited Bibi to an inter-religious dialogue in Germany. "We would also welcome very much if the Catholic Church supports our plans for an inter-religious encounter with Bibi," said Mazyek. Read more: Opinion: Asia Bibi exposes a failing Pakistani state In Britain, Islamic clerics have joined in calls from former foreign secretary Boris Johnson to help Bibi. Earlier this week, three British Imams - Qari Asim, Mamadou Bocoum and Usama Hasan - signed a letter to Home Secretary Sajid Javid, demanding that the British government must take a clear stance about Bibi and "welcome a request for sanctuary here." The letter added: "We are confident that action to ensure Asia Bibi and her family are safe would be very widely welcomed by most people in Britain, across every faith in our society… If there are intolerant fringe voices who would object, they must be robustly challenged, not indulged." It said that "freedom of religious expression" is one of the most important values in Britain. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37jMh Bibi still under threat Bibi's lawyer, Saif-ul-Mulook, told the German daily Bild am Sonntag on November 11 that Asia Bibi "would be happy if she could leave for Germany with her family." Bibi is reportedly still in Pakistan after her release from jail last week. Despite her acquittal by the Supreme Court, Bibi remained in prison due to Islamist protests, spearheaded by the Tehreek-e-Labbaik (TLP) party. Bibi's was one of the most high-profile blasphemy cases in Pakistan, with international rights groups and Western governments demanding a fair trial in her case. In 2015, Bibi's daughter met with Pope Francis, who offered prayers for her mother at the Vatican. Read more: Asia Bibi's blasphemy verdict: Islamists protest across Pakistan Bibi was arrested in June 2009, after her neighbors complained she had made derogatory remarks about Islam's Prophet Muhammad. A year later, Bibi was sentenced to death, despite strong opposition from national and international human rights groups. Blasphemy is punishable by death in Pakistan, where 97 percent of its 180 million inhabitants are Muslims. Rights activists have demanded reforms of the controversial blasphemy laws, which were introduced by the Islamic military dictator General Zia-ul-Haq in the 1980s. Activists say the laws have little to do with blasphemy and are often used to settle petty disputes and personal vendettas. Several European countries are willing to take Bibi and her family in, but it is unclear when she would be allowed to leave the South Asian country. An 'opportunity' to counter extremism Although, the message of solidarity from Europe's Islamic organizations is commendable, some analysts say their emphasis on religion ignores the most important aspect of the Bibi case: fundamental human rights. Adeel Khan, a researcher at the University of Cambridge and specialist in Islamic education, says that until British Imams do not talk in terms of inviolable human rights and freedom, they are at odds with secular activists. "Bibi has fought valiantly for her rights and against the injustice she has faced. To ignore aspect of her case is a breach of her dignity, her rights and her struggle," Khan told DW. Read more: Opinion: The West must demand changes to Pakistan's blasphemy laws The expert admitted that the support of Islamic groups matter a great deal, however, it falls short. "In the words of Sara Khan, a British Muslim activist, this could be an opportunity to send a clear message to extremists that our country will stand up for our values. It is this owning of collective human rights values that is needed from British Imams today, and nothing less should be acceptable," Khan emphasized. Khan also said that Britain's Islamic organisations and clerics that are supporting Bibi do not represent all British Muslims. "Radical Muslim preachers cannot express their views in public openly anymore. But their resentment is growing," Khan said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2udu6 Berlin and the EU must act Siegfried O. Wolf from the Brussels-based South Asia Democratic Forum (SADF) warned that Germany's ZMD support for Bibi should not be overestimated. "There are many factions within the organization that makes it difficult for them to make a clear position on a number of important religious issues such as the application of Sharia law in Germany," Wolf told DW. "We must not ignore that the issue of deteriorating human rights and Islamic radicalization go hand in hand. They must be addressed simultaneously - those supporting Bibi must mention it in their discourse," the German South Asia scholar added. Read more: Opinion: Bibi verdict avoids Pakistan's blasphemy problem A number of German political parties have expressed solidarity with Bibi and urged the government to use all diplomatic means to secure her freedom. "The federal government must act now. That would be a sign in support of the freedom of religion and human rights," said Green party chief Katrin Göring-Eckardt. Wolf said the German government needs to take up Bibi's case with Pakistani authorities urgently. "Berlin should work with its other European partners at the EU level to respond to Bibi's plight collectively. The European bloc has some options to pressure Islamabad; for instance it can force Pakistan to improve human rights by conditionally suspending the South Asian country from its preferential trade GSP-plus agreement," he added. In 2009, Asia Bibi was accused of insulting the Prophet Muhammad while she was working in a field in Punjab's Sheikhupura district. The Muslim women who were working with Bibi objected to her fetching water, saying that as a non-Muslim she was not allowed to touch the water bowl. The women then complained to a local cleric and leveled blasphemy charges against Bibi. According to local media, the argument in the field led to a mob attack on Bibi's house. Later, police took Bibi into custody and launched an investigation into the blasphemy accusations. Blasphemy is a sensitive issue in Pakistan, where 97 percent of the population is Muslim. The blasphemy law was introduced by General Zia-ul-Haq, a military dictator, in the 1980s. Activists say they are often implemented in cases that have little to do with blasphemy and are used to settle petty disputes and personal vendettas. Christians, Hindus and Ahmadis — a minority Islamic sect — are often victimized as a result. In 2010, a lower court convicted Bibi of blasphemy. Although the defense lawyer argued that the blasphemy allegations were made to settle personal scores, the court sentenced Bibi to death by hanging. Bibi's family has been living under constant fear since 2010. Her husband, Ashiq Masih (R), says he has been fighting a battle for his wife's freedom ever since. In 2010, Salman Taseer (R), the then governor of Punjab province, backed Bibi and demanded amendments in the blasphemy laws. Taseer's anti-blasphemy law position angered extremists. In 2011, Taseer was gunned down by his own bodyguard in Islamabad. The same year, Shahbaz Bhatti, the then minister for minorities and a prominent blasphemy law critic, was also assassinated by unidentified gunmen. After Taseer's murder, Qadri became a hero for Pakistani Islamists. Qadri was showered with rose petals by right-wing groups as he was taken to jail by the authorities. Qadri was sent to the gallows in 2016. Thousands of people – mostly supporters of Islamic groups – attended Qadri's funeral. Local media reported that Qadri's supporters built a shrine after his death to honor him. After the killings of blasphemy law critics, many lawyers refused to take up Bibi's case in the higher courts. In 2014, the Lahore High Court upheld her death sentence. Pakistan's top court, the Supreme Court, was scheduled to hear Bibi's appeal against the conviction in 2016, but one judge refused to be a part of the judicial bench, citing personal reasons. According to the American Centre for Law and Justice, at least 40 Pakistanis were sentenced to death on blasphemy charges in 2016. The law is often used to target religious minorities and secular Muslims. Although there hasn't been any legal execution under the blasphemy law, there have been instances where angry mobs have lynched alleged blasphemers. Pakistan's Christians and other religious minorities complain of legal and social discrimination in their country. In the past few years, many Christians and Hindus have been brutally murdered over unproven blasphemy allegations. Religious extremists in Pakistan, particularly the Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) group, have warned the authorities against reversing Bibi's blasphemy verdict. The country's Christian minority fears that if the judges decide to reverse the death sentence, they could face a violent backlash from the country's hardline Islamic groups. Rights groups and Western governments demand a fair trial in Bibi's case. In 2015, Bibi's daughter met with Pope Francis, who offered prayers for her mother at the Vatican. In 2014, Amnesty International dubbed the Lahore High Court's verdict against Bibi a "grave injustice." The American Centre for Law and Justice also condemned Bibi's sentence and urged Islamabad to protect religious minorities. Author: Onkar Singh Janoti