Customs officers in the German city of Hamburg announced a series of massive drug busts on Friday after uncovering several hundred kilograms of cocaine in that were hidden in unusual places. The most recent bust was made in early November, when officers found 300 kilograms (661 pounds) of cocaine hidden behind a large shipment of dental floss. Customs officials in the northern port city made the discovery while x-raying the container, which had been shipped from the Dominican Republic. In a statement, customs officials said the cocaine was worth around €63 million ($71.6 million) on the black market. 'Nearly perfect hiding place' In another unusual case, customs officers found 100 kilograms of "ultra-pure" cocaine that was stashed in an imported Volkswagen (VW) T2 camper van. The cocaine is believed to have a street value of at least €21 million. The drugs were found a lime-green, 1974 VW camper van that had been shipped to Hamburg in a container from Brazil — in what customs officers described as a "nearly perfect hiding place." Another batch of cocaine was found carefully concealed in a VW camper van imported from Brazil The suspects welded a false bottom in place beneath the rear seat, stowing the drugs in the hidden compartment beneath the floor of the vehicle and above the wheel arch. "It appears as though drug smugglers will never run out of creative ideas for new hiding places. But that's exactly what makes the profession of a customs officer so exciting," said Michael Schrader, the head of the main customs office in Hamburg's harbor. Hamburg authorities have intercepted several other large cocaine shipments in recent weeks. Earlier in November, police announced they'd uncovered over one ton of the drug in a truck located on the site of a freight forwarding company. Shortly before that find, customs officers found 200 kilograms of cocaine in a shipping container loaded with coffee that was to be sent to a business located in Hamburg. The northern German port is the largest and busiest in the country by a considerable margin. Those in the know can easily spot the first generation VW Bus by its split windshield. Though it's hard to believe, originally around 80 percent of its parts came from the Beetle production line. Even the motor (a whopping 24.5 horsepower!) was borrowed from the famous "people's car." This well-maintained microbus has skylights, a folding sunroof and a row of pivoting side windows. Riders have to be very attentive if they want to appreciate all the details in this rolling design museum; and buyers must have the proper pocket change to be able to drive it off into the sunset. VW's "expedition camper" is legendary: books and movies have been made about it. Whether travelling from the top of South America to Tierra del Fuego, along the Silk Road in Asia or Marrakech-Cape Town-Cairo: those who loved their camper showed it the world. And the van had almost everything adventurers needed - except a shower and toilet. The memory of the VW Bus can even make people who never had one and never even rode in one sentimental. It is simply a symbol of the times - even a rebellious time. Not surprisingly today it is usually parents and grandparents who display these miniature rust buckets on their shelves or desks. Here another first generation Camper in Miami in 1967, the last year of its production. Not only hippies and adventurers considered the VW Bus a part of their way of life. A younger generation looking for more freedom also soon discovered the four-meter-long vehicle for itself. The police had them in their vehicle fleet, so did the Red Cross, craftsmen and fire departments. There is hardly any other type of vehicle which owners modified to meet their needs as much as the VW Bus. Of the few remaining original models today, hardly any are in untouched factory condition. Wolf Dieter Hildisch from the Camping Oldie Club takes good care of his green and white pride - a vintage VW Bus - which he presented at the 2002 International Caravan Fair in Düsseldorf. Such well-preserved examples are becoming ever rarer, this one includes its original space heater. New road laws marked the end of the road for the VW Bus in 2013. Without the required ABS brakes or airbags which could not be fitted into the van, its fate was sealed. The vehicle enjoyed great popularity in Brazil - the last place it was manufactured - mostly because almost everything could be repaired through relatively simple means. But it became a victim of its technical backwardness. What was the artist thinking? In 1969, Joseph Beuys presented his creation "The Pack" - a VW bus with 24 sleds each carrying wax/grease, cotton ribbon, felt, binding belts and a flashlight. It's a rather unknown chapter from the history of the van that has achieved cult status the world over. Author: Volker Wagener Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.