Black people in the European Union continue to face a "pervasive scourge" of racism, including harassment, attacks and police profiling, according to an EU report published Wednesday. "Almost 20 years after adoption of EU laws forbidding discrimination, people of African descent face widespread and entrenched prejudice and exclusion," Michael O'Flaherty, director of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA), said in the foreword to the report entitled "Being Black in the EU." Read more: The persistent problem of racism in football The report draws on interviews conducted in 2015 and 2016 with around 5,800 people of African descent in 12 EU countries, including Germany, France and the UK. Thirty percent of respondents said they had experienced racist harassment in the past five years, and one-fifth said they did so in the last year. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35RW6 Five percent said they had experienced a racist attack in the past five years, and of those 10 percent were committed by police. However, two-thirds of victims of racist violence by police officers did not report the incident, with 28 percent saying they did not report it because they do not trust, or fear, the police. Lack of trust in law enforcement Illegal police profiling is also a problem. Around one-quarter of respondents said they had been stopped by police in the past five years. Among them, four in 10 characterized the police stop as racial profiling. This classic of children's literature, by Ottfried Preussler, was made into a film that came out earlier this year. In a 2013 revision of the book, children getting dressed up as a "Neger" — a derogatory word that can either be translated as "negro" or "nigger" — or a "Zigeuner" (gypsy) simply picked other costumes. The publisher's decision to change some words led to a heated debate in Germany. Thienemann publishing house also decided to review Preussler's other classic books of German children literature, including "The Robber Hotzenplotz" books and "The Little Ghost" (made into a film in 2013). They reformulated for example the friendly ghost's reaction when he turns black. Such revisions shock purists: Should books be changed? And where should the line be drawn? Experts view Michael Ende's popular children's novel as an allegory against the Nazis' ideology. During his lifetime, the author updated his book, turning references to China into a fictional country called Mandala. However, the latest version keeps the term "Neger," used once to describe the black boy in the tale. The latest movie adaption of the work was recently released in cinemas (photo). The word "negro" was already removed or replaced from the English version of Astrid Lindgren's popular books during the 1950s. The German version had been reworked in the 1990s; however, it kept the term with a footnote mentioning that it was outdated. In 2009, all references to Pippi's dad as the "Negerkönig" (Negro King) were replaced with the "South Sea King." Hugh Lofting's classic was reworked for its 1988 edition; instead of coming from the "Land of the White Men," Doctor Dolittle is from the "Land of the Europeans." Similarly, references to the King of Jolliginki avoid mentioning the color of his skin. Despite efforts to make race invisible, the colonial ideologies of the time are still reflected in the plot and the depictions of the characters. In the original version of Roald Dahl's book, the Oompa-Loompas — small humans working in Willy Wonka's chocolate factory — are described as African Pygmies. The author made them come from a fictional country called Loompaland in a revised version from 1973. In the 1971 film (photo), they were played by actors with dwarfism and depicted as surreal creatures with orange skin and green hair. The original title of Agatha Christie's masterpiece was "Ten Little Niggers," based on the British blackface song that guides the plot of the mystery novel. The title of the US edition, released a month after the British one in 1939, used the last five words of the song instead. However, it has also had the problematic title "Ten Little Indians," which refers to an American rhyming song. Initially published as a serialized weekly in the 1930s, Belgian cartoonist Herge later produced a colored version of the work and revised one violent big-game hunting scene in 1976. The volume was strongly criticized for its racist content by the late 20th century. There have been attempts to ban the book; in English, it is sold with an extra explanation of the historical context. Mark Twain's iconic classic is viewed as an anti-racist satire. It is also among the first American works to use vernacular English — and coarse language. The word "nigger," a common racial slur in the mid-19th-century, is used over 200 times in the book. One revised version from 2011 replaces the N-word with "slave." Critics believe it is wrong to whitewash the historical context of such books. Author: Elizabeth Grenier Not only is racial profiling illegal, but it also undermines trust in law enforcement, the report said. "Overall, respondents rate their trust in the police at 6.3 on a scale from 0 to 10, where 0 means ‘no trust at all' and 10 indicates 'complete trust,'" the report said. Read more: Is 'racial profiling' illegal? Depends on where you live The FRA report also investigated discrimination in employment, housing and education, with four in 10 respondents saying they felt racial discrimination in these areas in the past five years. "A particularly unsettling pattern is that younger individuals tend to experience more discrimination and exclusion than older individuals. This renders even more urgent the need for intensified efforts to promote the full inclusion of people of African descent in the EU," O'Flaherty said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2a00T Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.