A German court on Thursday ruled that a 47-year-old circus chimpanzee called Robby should spend the rest of his days among people, rather than with other apes. Zoo-born Robby has lived with circus owner Klaus Köhler and his family since the age of three, and the question of whether he would be better off at an ape rehabilitation facility has been the subject of a lengthy legal battle. The decision in the Higher Administrative Court in Lüneburg means he will stay put. "I'm glad that I can keep my child," the circus boss told reporters after the ruling was handed down. Read more: Do animals belong in the circus ring? Thousands of people protested in Valencia last weekend against what they see as government efforts to stop an important tradition in Spain: bullfighting. For centuries, crowds have watched matadors baiting bulls. But opponents say it is cruel and stressful for the animals. Pro-bullfighting groups are calling for the sport to be added to the Unesco list of intangible cultural heritage. Elephants, and lions - these animals are used in circuses worldwide. They are subjugated into performing demanding tricks. According to the animal protection organization Peta, the animals are often removed from their mothers when they are far too young. After much public pressure, the Ringling Brothers Circus in the US will stop using elephants. But the practice will continue in other shows. It's been more than 10 years since fox hunting was banned in the UK. And yet, the controversial activity continues in a different form. Trail hunting has replaced the traditional hunt - but satisfies neither hunters nor opponents. Pro-hunting lobbyists are campaigning to get the law repealed, while animal rights activists argue trail hunts allow illegal hunting with dogs to continue to take place. A trip to the zoo may sound like fun - but for some animals, the bars and fences mean misery. Despite rules put in place by the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums to ensure welfare of the animals, the organization has been accused of overlooking cruelty in Thailand, Kazakhstan and Sri Lanka. No animals were harmed in the making of this picture gallery - but can the same be said about Hollywood films? Peta says that like in circuses, many creatures are removed from their mothers when they are too young, and subjected to abuse. But there are protective measures in place - the American Humane Association works with the film and television industry to insure the safety of animal actors. The gates are up, and they're off - greyhounds chasing down a mechanical rabbit. That's what they were born to do, right? Running is actually just a small part of the dogs' lives. The League Against Cruel Sports estimates for 95 percent of the time, race dogs are shut in kennels. "Cruelty, drug abuse, injury, neglect and killing" - just a day in the life for these dogs, according to the league. One animal pitted against another - dog fighting is entertainment based on suffering. And while it's illegal in many countries, dog fighting continues to take place in back alleys and behind closed doors, with people gambling on the outcome. The dogs are commonly kept on chains, and are bred to be aggressive. If you see this "sport" taking place, best report it. Troubled ape The lawsuit stemmed from a 2015 order by local authorities in Celle. The northern city argued that Robby should be sent to a rescue center specializing in re-socializing apes because he suffered serious behavioral problems as a result of living with people. That order was confirmed by the Lüneburg Administrative Court in April last year. The judges presiding over Thursday's decision acknowledged that although Robby undoubtedly suffered serious behavioral disruptions, that did not mean he should be handed over to a facility. Read more: Animal entertainment: Tradition or cruel sport? Robby the chimpanzee has lived with circus boss Klaus Köhler for more than 40 years Lesser of two evils The court said local authorities in Celle had failed to take into account the advanced age of the animal and the dangers associated with undergoing what could potentially be years of rehabilitation. The judges also pointed out that Robby would only be exposed to a few animals at a re-socializing facility — also a less than ideal situation. The court heard testimony from veterinarian Pierre Grothmann, who said the male ape was lacking social skills and could not live without typical behaviors, including sexual interactions with other chimps. But Köhler argued taking Robby out of his current environment would be more damaging. "Robby knows no apes, only humans — we are the conspecifics for him," Köhler said, adding that his family spent several hours a day with the chimp. Animal rights groups voiced disappointment over the verdict. Activists from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) protested outside the courthouse, while welfare organization Four Paws appealed to the German government to ban wild animals from circuses. Robby is considered to be one of the last great circus apes in Germany. Read more: Retire the elephants, animal rights groups demand Chimpanzees have had a knack for dealing with tools for a long time. Researchers from the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig have found evidence in West Africa proving that chimpanzees have been cracking nuts with stone tools for the last 4,300 years. British scientists have shown that bottlenose dolphins call their mates using individual whistling patterns. In other words, dolphins use something that is comparable to our names. Apparently, they develop their individual series of whistles as a signature at a very young age. New Caledonian crows (not pictured) seem to have the ability to invent tools. In 2002, the magazine Science reported on a crow bending a straight wire into a hook to fish food from a vessel. Pigs can learn certain behavior by observing their relatives. That's what scientists from Vienna found while working with Kune Kune pigs. The animals were also able to repeat what they learned half a year later, thus proving a long-lasting memory. Ants keep plant lice as farm animals to harvest a sweet nectar that the lice secrete. To make sure they do as their masters want, the ants use a chemical substance, with which they force the lice to move slower, thus make it impossible for them to escape. Pigeons can do something that humans must develop over a couple of years: they are among the few animals that recognize themselves in a mirror. This self-awareness is an important piece of evidence in distinguishing intelligent animals from instinctively acting ones. Two orca populations near Canada's west coast are apparently maintaining a 700,000-year-old culture. The so-called "Residents" and "Transients" share the same habitat temporarily. However, they do not mate and rely on different food. Transients traditionally eat mammals; the Residents eat fish. Surprisingly they do not deviate from their habits even in times of need. Author: Klaus Esterluss nm/aw (dpa, AFP) Every day, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.