European consumer agencies on Tuesday said they will file complaints against Google for allegedly breaching the EU's data protection law GDPR by tracking the movement of users without their consent through features such as "location history" and "web and app activity." Consumer groups from the Czech Republic, Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovenia and Sweden said they will file complaints with their countries' respective data protection authorities, which is basic procedure under GDPR. Norwegian consumer group Forbrukerradet tweeted a video explaining Google's practices, saying the tech giant "manipulates you to accept being followed step by step." "These unfair practices leave consumers in the dark about the use of their personal data," the European Consumer Organization said in a statement. "They do not give consumers a real choice other than providing their location data, which is then used by the company for a wide range of purposes, including targeted advertising." Read more: Europe looking to find its platform for the digital age 'Improve your Google experience' But Google has rejected the allegations. A company spokesman told Reuters news agency that "location history" is turned off "by default." He added that users can decide to edit, delete or pause its use whenever they want to. "If you pause it, we make clear that — depending on your individual phone and app settings — we might still collect and use location data to improve your Google experience," the spokesman said. Google has consistently asserted its commitment to GDPR, saying its services comply with the EU regulation. Read more: Google employees stage global walkout for women's rights Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2syRC 'Forced consent' The GDPR, formerly known as the EU's General Data Protection Regulation, went into effect on May 25, 2018. But this isn't the first time Google has been targeted by GDPR complaints. On day one of enforcement,  Austrian digital rights group Noyb filed complaints against Google's Android application for what it described as "forced consent." Instead of making users feel free to make a decision about a service's data privacy policy, "the opposite feeling spread on the screens" of users, the group argued. Under GDPR, an entity such as Google can be fined up to 4 percent of global revenues for violations. Read more: How Google envisions the future of journalism Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Whether hate speech, propaganda or activism, governments across the globe have upped efforts to curb content deemed illegal from circulating on social networks. From drawn-out court cases to blanket bans, DW examines how some countries try to stop the circulation of illicit content while others attempt to regulate social media. After a public debate in Germany, a new law on social media came into effect in October. The legislation imposes heavy fines on social media companies, such as Facebook, for failing to take down posts containing hate speech. Facebook and other social media companies have complained about the law, saying that harsh rules might lead to unnecessary censorship. In 2014, the European Court of Justice ruled that European citizens had the right to request search engines, such Google and Bing, remove "inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant or excessive" search results linked to their name. Although Google has complied with the ruling, it has done so reluctantly, warning that it could make the internet as "free as the world's least free place." In May 2017, Ukraine imposed sanctions on Russian social media platforms and web services. The blanket ban affected millions of Ukrainian citizens, many of whom were anxious about their data. The move prompted young Ukrainians to protest on the streets, calling for the government to reinstate access to platforms that included VKontakte (VK), Russia's largest social network. In 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled that Safe Harbor, a 15-year-old pact between the US and EU that allowed the transfer of personal data without prior approval, was effectively invalid. Austrian law student Max Schrems launched the legal proceedings against Facebook in response to revelations made by former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor, Edward Snowden. In China, the use of social media is highly regulated by the government. Beijing has effectively blocked access to thousands of websites and platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest. Instead, China offers its citizens access to local social media platforms, such as Weibo and WeChat, which boast hundreds of millions of monthly users. Many politicians and media outlets blame Russia's influence for Donald Trump's election victory in 2016. Moscow reportedly used Facebook, Twitter, Google, and Instagram to shape public opinion on key issues. In October 2017, Twitter suspended over 2,750 accounts due to alleged Russian propaganda. The platform also banned ads from RT (formerly Russia Today) and the Sputnik news agency. With social media under pressure for allowing alleged Russian meddling, Facebook announced a new project to combat such efforts in November 2017. The upcoming page will give users a chance to check if they "liked" or followed an alleged propaganda account on Facebook or Instagram. Meanwhile, Facebook has come under fire for not protecting user data in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Author: Lewis Sanders IV (dj) ls/es (Reuters, dpa)