At a recent conference of Germany's Christian Democrat (CDU) youth wing, Chancellor Angela Merkel looked out across the group's leadership and had a laconic observation to share: "Very male," she said. "But 50 percent of the population is missing," she continued, addressing the group of which just 5 of 16 state-level boards are led by women. "Women enrich life, not only private life but also political life. You don't know what you're missing." To the rest of the world, Germany may seem like a beacon for women's political representation: For the last 13 years, the country has been led by Merkel, the world's most powerful female politician. And it's not just her: the leader of the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), Andrea Nahles, is also a woman; in the race to replace Merkel as head of the center-right Christian Democrats (CDU), one top candidate is her close ally and the party's secretary-general, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer. A century of small steps As Germany celebrates the 100th anniversary of women's suffrage on November 12th, however, it's clear that the presence of women at the top levels of politics has not necessarily translated into similar success for other female leaders. Though the country's early efforts to promote gender equality made it one of the world's most pioneering when it came to promoting women's political participation, Germany has today fallen behind in this effort. Compared with other countries, Germany's share of women in politics is only middling, and the percentage of women in the German Bundestag has reached a 20-year low. That lack of strong women's representation in German politics a is indicative of the broader problems of gender equality in the country, too. In other industries and across public life, German women are hindered in reaching high-profile leadership positions. The numbers In Germany's lower house of parliament, the Bundestag, the percentage of women actually dropped after the 2017 federal elections: Just 218 of the 709 elected parliamentarians, or 31 percent, are women. This puts Germany in 46th place in the world ranking of female representation (out of 193 countries), trailing 11 other European Union member states, according to statistics from the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The previous German Bundestag, by contrast, included nearly 37 percent female parliamentarians. Rwanda leads the global ranking with 61.3 percent women in its lower house of parliament. Back in Europe, Sweden, for example, has a parliament comprised of 46 percent women; Finland, Norway, and France all have around or just over 40 percent women. The drop that occurred in the 2017 elections comes in large part from the two political parties that entered or reentered the Bundestag this time around: the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), which gained parliamentary seats for the first time, and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), which returned after four years out of parliament. Of the AfD's 92 members, just 11 percent are women; among the FDP's parliamentary group, 24 percent are women. Read more: Female representation lagging on German public boards Double standards and ingrained thinking Politics has always been a male-dominated arena, but there are some systemic reasons this remains the case. Women are often asked to explain how they will balance family life and a career in politics — a question that is rarely, if ever, asked of their male counterparts. In addition, fewer women tend to run for political office to begin with. And some female politicians say the large proportion of men in the industry in some ways reinforces itself: They seek out colleagues and potential successors based on who they feel comfortable with or relate to, which often means fellow men. Katja Dörner, the deputy leader of the Greens' parliamentary group, said the reasons for such discrepancies are myriad: some of it has to do with ingrained cultural ideas. "And then there's simply the compatibility of work and public office with family, which is often still difficult on the grassroots level," she told DW.  "But there are also male cliques, cultural influences and the demands made on people in politics." Read more: Germany's corporate battle of the sexes The 62-year-old was appointed chancellor in 2005 - the country's first female head of government - and is currently campaigning to secure a fourth term as Germany's leader. The pastor's daughter from communist East Germany and chemistry doctorate was named "Person of the Year 2015" by Time magazine. Amid growing right-wing populism, many media have dubbed her the leader of the free world. Theresa May is the UK's second female prime minister after Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s. The 60-year-old former home secretary took office at Downing Street in July 2016, just weeks after the UK's historic Brexit vote, with the task of negotiating the country's exit. How long she will retain the reins of power remains questionable, however: a June 2017 snap election may usher her out of office. Tsai Ing-Wen is the first woman to serve as president of the Republic of China, more commonly known as Taiwan. Her inauguration in May 2016 led Beijing to freeze relations with the small island, which the mainland claims can never be independent. Tsai has made it clear she will not "bow to pressure" over the issue of sovereignty. She is also chairwoman of the Democratic Progressive Party. The 78-year-old, in office as president of Liberia since 2006, is Africa's first female head of state. In 2011, Sirleaf and two other woman activists from Liberia and Yemen were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize "for their non-violent struggle for the safety of women and for women's rights to full participation in peace-building work." Dalia Grybauskaite is the first woman to head the small Baltic State of Lithuania. She is often referred to as the "Iron Lady" or "Steel Magnolia" for her black belt in karate and no-nonsense manner of speaking. The 61-year-old held a number of government positions before she was elected president in 2009 and re-elected in 2014. Norway, too, is governed by a woman. Erna Solberg took office in 2013. The 56-year-old is the wealthy northern country's second female prime minister after Gro Harlem Brundtland. Her tough asylum policies earned her the nickname "Iron Erna." She also heads up Norway's Conservative Party. Poland's third female prime minister has been in office since November 2015. Szydlo's government's priority to ensure the security of Poles and contribute to the EU's security, the 54-year-old seasoned politician and devout Catholic said in her first keynote address to parliament. Prior to becoming prime minister, she served as a mayor and a parliamentary representative. The 49-year-old, Namibia's fourth prime minister, has been in office since 2015. Kuugongelwa-Amadhila went into exile in Sierra Leone as a young teenager. She pursued higher education in the US, graduating with a degree in economics before returning home in 1994, where she began working in politics. She is the first woman to head Namibia's government and a strong proponent of women's rights. Michelle Bachelet has been the incumbent president of Chile since 2014. It is her second term: she'd already served as Chile's first female president from 2006 to 2010. After suffering imprisonment and torture as a young woman in Chile, she spent years in exile in Australia and East Germany, where she studied medicine. After returning to Chile in 1979, she pushed for a transition to democracy. Forbes business magazine also featured the current prime minister of Bangladesh on its list of the World's 100 Most Powerful Women in 2016. "Sheikh Hasina Wajed has command over a country with the world's eighth largest population - 162 million people - and she has wielded this power since 2009," Forbes wrote about the 69-year-old, who has been in politics for decades. The 49-year-old held several government positions and represented Croatia as Ambassador to the United States before she was elected in 2015 as the country's first woman president, and its youngest. Grabar-Kitarovic's position from 2011 to 2014 as Assistant Secretary General for Public Diplomacy at NATO makes her the highest-ranking female ever within NATO's administrative team. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach, Cristina Burack Concrete measures So what can Germany do to involve more women in politics? The parties with the greatest success at electing women, the Greens and the Left party, have one major characteristic in common: They have instituted internal gender quotas for candidates and politicians. The Greens and the Left party require that 50 percent of all candidates and ministers be women. In the current Bundestag, 58 percent of Greens parliamentarians and 54 percent of Left parliamentarians are women. The SPD, by contrast, requires 40 percent of candidates and ministers to be women; their parliamentary group currently consists of 42 percent women. "A quota isn't a wish or some nice thing, it's a means to an end," Dörner said. "And if you don't reach an important goal, and it's obvious you won't reach it, then you need a new, effective tool." Read more: What is gender budgeting – and how can it improve gender equality? Quotas still controversial Other parties have considered quota systems but ultimately not implemented them. Earlier this year, the FDP's Nicola Beer floated implementing one within her own party; the CDU has a so-called women's quorum, aiming for 30 percent representation, but it is nonbinding and the party often fails to reach that threshold. According to polls, the German electorate is split on whether such measures should be implemented. With Germany set to celebrate the centennial of women's voting rights here, it's clear the country still has a long way to go when it comes to ensuring that women's voices are appropriately represented in politics. As Merkel's time as chancellor comes to a close, this issue — and how exactly to do something about it — is on the minds of many of the country's advocates for equality. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35aol