Chancellor Angela Merkel vehemently defended her economic record and her current policies in her first parliamentary speech since her announcement that this would be her last government. Enduring a hail of mocking laughter and scornful interruptions from the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), Merkel led the Bundestag's budget debate on Wednesday by defending the United Nations migration and refugee pacts. "We want reasonable conditions everywhere in the world, because otherwise, of course, people will say you only have a few countries you can go to, and try it and risk their lives," she said. "That's why it's in our national interest that the conditions for fleeing on the one side, and for work migration on the other, improve." In a particularly animated moment, she described how one of the aims of the UN pacts was to equalize working conditions around the world while not altering the legal guarantees for migrants in Germany itself. "This pact for migration, just like the pact for refugees, is the right attempt - and we're still at the beginning - to solve global problems at an international level and together," she said. AfD: 'politics of unreason' But the AfD's parliamentary leader, Alice Weidel, began the debate with a very different point to make. In a charged opening speech, the far-right leader accused the chancellor of pursuing a "politics of division and unreason," and overspending the country's prosperity on all the wrong priorities. "We're spending money every year to fight against the right-wing, and other ways to patronize people, but women and girls can't go out alone on the streets for fear of being attacked by so-called asylum-seekers," said Weidel. Weidel also accused Merkel's administration of "waging a war against the combustion engine" and pandering to "obscure lobby groups" to the detriment of Germany's vital auto industry. The AfD politician ended by dismissing the accusations of breaking party donations law by accusing all the other parties of identical transgressions. Merkel's response to Weidel was dry: "The nice thing about free debates is that everyone talks about what they think is important for the country," she said, pausing for a generous round of applause. She went on to list all the economic markers that displayed Germany's prosperity. The economy: energy and digitalization Merkel also emphasized the issues she said would be decisive for the future of Germany: digitalization and the future of energy in times of climate change. A key plank of the latter is the government's coal commission, which is meant to regulate the phaseout of coal power stations while offering security for the 100,000 people whose jobs depend on them. "It's not about setting phaseout dates, it's about giving people hope and a future and preparing structural change properly in order to give us the security to say, 'yes, we will also make our contribution to climate change," she said. The chancellor went on to defend the hard-fought preliminary deal that the European Union had hashed out with Prime Minister Theresa May over Britain's exit from the bloc. The major sticking point, she said, remained the border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the UK, and the Republic of Ireland, which is in the EU. "We have placed value, and I think this is right, on the fact that Britain cannot decide unilaterally when it ends the state of the customs union, but that Britain must decide this together with the EU," she said. Read more: Opinion: A cold-hearted, fearmongering AfD