Salomon Kalou's last gasp penalty for Hertha Berlin last week ended Dortmund's run of four consecutive Bundesliga victories, and with Bayern winning in Mainz, Dortmund are desperate to ensure the gap remains after a potentially tricky trip to Wolfsburg. Read more — Is European football too much for some Bundesliga clubs? The Wolves have stopped the rot after a run of six league games without a win with a convincing 3-0 victory at Fortuna Düsseldorf last weekend, which they followed up with a 2-0 win at Hanover in the German Cup. That upturn in form should present a bigger challenge for Dortmund than was the case when Bayern visited the Autostadt on October 20, and Wolfsburg coach Bruno Labbadia goes into the game hopeful that his side can cause an upset. "Dortmund are the team to beat in the Bundesliga at the moment," Labbadia said. "We need a top performance on Saturday, and I'm confident we can produce one. We didn't let ourselves get flustered during a tough period earlier in the season, but we don't want to get carried away when we win either." Borussia Dortmund are unbeaten in all competitions this season. With Bayern in hot pursuit, it's a big test for Dortmund to prove they can win these kinds of games and sustain a serious title challenge. But Dortmund, who are still unbeaten this season, will be without right-back Lukasz Piszczek, centre-back Manuel Akanji, and could be without Mario Götze, who is ill. In contrast to Wolfsburg's return to form, Lucien Favre's side have suffered minor stumbles since they crushed Stuttgart 4-0 on Matchday 8. The 2-2 draw with Hertha was followed by a narrow 3-2 win over second tier Union Berlin in the German Cup, and Dortmund will be determined to ensure that they can pick up another three points at the Volkswagen Arena and continue to set the pace in the Bundesliga.  Elsewhere on Matchday 10 Bayern Munich vs. Freiburg Arjen Robben, James Rodriguez, Jerome Boateng and Mats Hummels are all available again after missing Tuesday's nervy 2-1 win over Rödinghausen in the German Cup. While they haven't been convincing, four victories in all competitions has eased some of the immediate pressure on Niko Kovac, and nothing but a win will do for Bayern against Freiburg in front of the home fans. Freiburg have had a mixed season so far, but have only lost one league game in their last seven and are unlikely to roll over in Munich. Hertha Berlin vs. RB Leipzig One of the most eye-catching games of the weekend is the short trip to the German capital for RB Leipzig. Ralf Rangnick's side have hit their stride and haven't conceded a goal in 461 minutes of football. But Hertha are fresh off the back of that draw in Dortmund and will be aware that defeat to Leipzig could create a gap between them and the top five. Hertha are unbeaten at the Olympiastadion this season, having already beaten Borussia Mönchengladbach and champions Bayern Munich there. Bayer Leverkusen vs. Hoffenheim Bayer Leverkusen host Hoffenheim as two underperforming sides with big aspirations meet. Leverkusen have hit form in dramatic fashion, scoring 11 goals in their last two games and demolishing Werder Bremen with a scintillating attacking performance.  They could drag themselves into the top half of the table with victory over Hoffenheim, who are struggling to find consistency this season.  Matchday 10 fixtures: Stuttgart vs. Eintracht Frankfurt  (Friday, 8:30 p.m. CET) Bayer Leverkusen vs. Hoffenheim (Saturday, 3:30 p.m.) Schalke vs. Hannover Bayern Munich vs. Freiburg Wolfsburg vs. Borussia Dortmund Augsburg vs. Nuremberg Hertha Berlin vs RB Leipzig  (Saturday, 6:30 p.m.) Borussia Mönchengladbach vs Fortuna Düsseldorf (Sunday, 3:30 p.m.) Mainz vs Werder Bremen (Sunday, 6:00 p.m.)