Germans are generally known for valuing punctuality. Germany's trains, however, are earning a reputation of their own for often being late, old and overloaded, according to  an investigation by public broadcaster ARD. Only 20 percent of the country's high-speed intercity express (ICE) trains are fully functional, according to Deutsche Bahn documents viewed by the ARD's Kontraste TV show. But maintenance is not the only headache ailing the state-owned train company. On Thursday and Friday, Deutsche Bahn's supervisory board is meeting to discuss this and other problems, including delays, a dearth of drivers and an overall lack of infrastructure investment. Delays, bad maintenance and lack of workers The documents seen by Kontraste show that Germany's train company had planned to reach an 82 percent punctuality rate for all trains by 2018, but that the goal has been pushed back to 2025. At the moment, the on-time rate is 73 percent. According to Deutsche Bahn, a train is considered on-time if it is less than six minutes late. A lack of personnel is a key reason why so many trains are late. Deutsche Bahn needs more than 5,000 train drivers, train conductors, maintenance employees and IT specialists, according to the internal documents. The rail operator's 2015 figures were in negative territory. Write-offs and the company's large-scale restructuring had driven the balance sheet into the red. A bottom-line profit of 716 million euros ($772 million) put Deutsche Bahn back on the success track last year. New head train driver Richard Lutz (left), formerly chief financial officer, has taken over the company's reins from Rüdiger Grube (right). Grube had surprisingly resigned over disputes surrounding the extension of his contract. The fundamental restructuring of Deutsche Bahn started two decades ago and is to continue under Lutz. Since 1994, the Deutsche Bundesbahn (German Federal Railway), which used to burn through billions each year, has transformed into a global mobility enterprise. The DB corporation now has 300,000 employees in over 140 countries. Restructuring remains a balancing act, as DB needs to meet political demands and turn a profit. Even the most remote village is to be connected to the railway network, regardless of the number of passengers. Moreover, trains are supposed to be punctual and comfortable, all while keeping ticket prices affordable. Trains don't suffice to be mobile on a global level. DB Arriva, for instance, operates buses on top of trains in several European countries. Logistics service provider DB Schenker, which employs 66,000 people in over 2,000 locations, manages DB's freight transport. DB intends to put an end to the crisis of its rail freight operations. In recent years, DB Cargo has logged losses due to inefficiency and failure to modernize its outdated fleet, Only around 17 percent of Germany's freight traffic is handled by rail. Large-scale projects like the major modification of Stuttgart's main train station (photo) have caused a big stir. Many residents of Stuttgart have protested against the mammoth project, and costs have exploded. DB is forced to contribute 3.5 billion euros out of its own pocket. The flotations of DB subsidiaries Arriva and Schenker, which were supposed to inject new money into the corporation, were called off in late 2016. An estimated 4.5 billion euros needed for investments are now sorely missing. According to DB, the cancellations were due to uncertainty over Brexit. Author: Insa Wrede (bb) Problems also plague DB's train maintenance. While the company has increased the number of trains it has repaired since 2016, this improvement has been outpaced by an increase in the number of damaged wagons entering the repair shops. Punctuality causes problems in Deutsche Bahn workshops as well. Because trains are arriving late for repairs, maintenance crews do not have the time they need to completely overhaul a wagon and focus instead on essential repairs. That has led to 17 percent more trains leaving workshops in less than ideal condition compared to 2016. Is low investment to blame? The overarching cause of Germany's train problems appears to be a lack of investment, according to Kontraste. The show estimated the investment backlog on the existing train network amounts to be €32 billion ($36.5 billion). On Tuesday, German Transport Minister Andreas Schauer said additional government investment in the train company had not yet been decided upon. "First we will set goal and formulate measures, then we will talk about money," he said at an event with Deutsche Bahn's head Richard Lutz. The minister said the train system is not underfunded, adding that "there is enough money in the system and to invest." Since its conception over 25 years ago, the Intercity-Express (ICE) line connecting Berlin and Munich has drawn much criticism – for instance, as a waste of billions of euros of taxpayer money since it cost about €10 billion ($11.8 billion). The so-called VDE 8 project is now ready and from December 10, the travel time between the two cities will be cut short by two hours to less than four hours. Until its completion, the VDE 8 project repeatedly faced the prospect of ending up as a costly failure. Operator Deutsche Bahn hopes to make the railways more attractive for passengers than budget airlines and long-distance buses. At present, rail transport has a market share of about 20 percent on this route, and Deutsche Bahn wants to raise it to 50 percent. Over 300 rail and 170 road bridges had to be built. Half of the route runs underground or through valleys. Trains that zip through tunnels at a speed of 300 kilometers per hour (186 mph) lead to a build up of air masses, which can erupt with a bang at the exit. "Hood structures" were built on some portals, so that pressure waves can swirl noiseless and won't cause any trouble. Three times a day, an ICE "Sprinter" runs in both directions and completes a one-way journey in less than four hours. Regular ICE trains take around four and a half hours to cover it. There will be up to 10,000 new ICE train seats per day between Berlin and Munich. Deutsche Bahn had to make the biggest change in its train schedules in its history: a third of all long-distance trains are affected. On the new lines, the rails are laid over 160,000 concrete slabs — and no longer on gravel. On such five-ton boards, the rails can be laid down to precision and maintenance costs are lower. The tracks are laid like dominoes — also on bridges and in tunnels, which speeds up construction considerably. Nuremberg is a major freight hub and the route between Nuremberg and Fürth is one of the busiest in Germany. A 13-kilometer-long (8-mile-long) freight train line now relieves this bottleneck. The centerpiece is the 7-kilometer-long tunnel under Nuremberg and Fürth. It's set to come in handy, as by 2025 goods transport by rail is projected to jump by around 60 percent. The high cost of the construction of the railway line will have to be recuperated in some form. Attracting more train passengers is one strategy, and raising ticket prices is another. For a trip between Berlin and Munich, passengers may have to pay up to €150, estimates Deutsche Bahn. That would be a rise of over 13 percent from the current price. German BUND environmental organization criticized the railway line construction’s negative environmental impact. But Deutsche Bahn says it has brought back into cultivation an area of around 4,000 hectares (9,884 acres). 600,000 trees have been planted, the company claims. In the run-up to the construction, there was a lot to do for archaeologists. The route crisscrosses trade routes that data back thousands of years. Moreover, remains of a 7,000-year-old settlement were discovered, with around 20,000 individual pieces appearing. Also, 150- to 200-million-year-old fossils came to light during the tunnel construction. The task now is to persuade people to travel by trains instead of taking to the road or the air. It would certainly help if the trains improved their punctuality. Perhaps the new ICE 4 trains could prove helpful to do this. Author: Insa Wrede 