Max Beckmann's "Woman's head in Blue and Gray (The Egyptian)" was sold on Thursday by the Villa Grisebach auction house in Berlin to an anonymous buyer. It had been estimated for the auction at €2 million before reaching its record €4.7 million. Auctioneer Peter Graf zu Eltz said it was the highest amount ever raised at an art auction in Germany. Beckmann's painting "Anni" was auctioned in 2005 for €3.4 million. Max Beckmann's The Egyptian Painted while Beckmann was living in Holland, "The Egyptian" was acquired in Amsterdam by Beckmann's patron Eberhard Göpel, whose wife, Barbara, had compiled a catalogue of the artist's works. "The Egyptian" came to auction in Berlin from her estate. Beckmann first called the painting "Woman's head in blue and gray" before changing it to "The Egyptian." It has been displayed in a number of museums around the world. The woman in question may have been Nimet Eloui Bey, who was also painted by surrealists in Paris. She is believed to have been a close friend of Man Ray and Lee Miller. Germany's Delacroix Beckmann has come to be recognized as one of the major European painters of the twentieth century, within mainstream modernism alongside Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico and Irish-British painter Francis Bacon. Born in Leipzig in 1884, he studied at the Weimar academy before going to Paris in 1903. When he returned to Germany he was hailed as a "German Delacroix" because of his style. He served as a medical orderly for a year during World War One and was discharged because of ill health. He moved to Frankfurt in 1915 and produced some of the key works of his career - in a much-changed style, due to his bitter experiences during the war. Beckmann went on to join artists George Grosz and Otto Dix in the "New Objectivity" exhibition at Mannheim in 1925 which saw the start of the new realism movement which dominated German art and literature between the wars. He taught in Frankfurt and enjoyed considerable success during the Weimar Republic. Max Beckmann in Bremen, Carnival Double Portrait, 1925 German exile Declared a "cultural Bolshevik" in 1933 by the Nazi regime, he lost his job in Frankfurt and more than 500 of his works were confiscated from German museums. In 1937, he left for the Netherlands. After the war, he went to the United States where he taught in St Louis and in New York. In 1947, three years before his death, he wrote in his diary: "Strange, that in every city I always hear the lions roar!" Beckmann had a one-man show at the Venice Biennale of 1950, the year he died, aged 66 from a heart attack in New York. Created around the year 1500, this painting of Christ attributed to Leonardo da Vinci is one of the master's 20 still existing paintings. In 1958, "Salvator Mundi" was sold for just $60 because it was thought to be a copy. It fetched more than four times Christie's pre-sale estimate of $100 million on November 15, when an anonymous bidder paid over $450 million (€382 million) for the work. From 1954-55, Pablo Picasso did a series of 15 paintings inspired by Delacroix's "Les Femmes d'Alger," with versions named "A" through "O." He started them after the death of Henry Matisse, as a tribute to his friend and artistic rival. "Version O" broke the world record for an auction sale, selling for $179.4 million (167.1 million euros) at Christie's in May 2015. At a Christie's auction held in November 2015, seven potential buyers spent nine frantic minutes bidding on this painting. It was finally snapped by a telephone bidder from China. The nude, painted in 1917-18, provoked a scandal at its first exhibition in Paris. The police shut down the art show after a crowd gathered outside the window. Modigliani's work "Nu couché (sur le côté gauche)" caused such a controversy when it was first shown in Paris in 1917 that the police had to close the exhibition. The Italian artist's oil painting became the most expensive artwork to have been sold at New York auction house Sotheby's in May 2018. This 1907 painting by Gustav Klimt is considered one of the most elaborate and representative of his "golden phase." In 2006, it was sold through a private sale brokered by Christie's for a record sum for a painting, $135 million. That same year, Jackson Pollock's classic drip painting "No. 5 1948" broke that record, obtaining $140 million through another private sale. Van Gogh allegedly said of the homeopathic doctor Dr. Gachet, whom he painted here in 1890, that "he was sicker than I am." The plant is a foxglove, which is used to make the drug digitalis. In 1990, the work was auctioned off to Ryoei Saito, Japan's second-largest paper manufacturer, for $82.5 million, making it the world's priciest painting at the time (the price above has been adjusted). This 1969 triptych documents Francis Bacon's friendship and rivalry with fellow painter Lucian Freud. At the time it was sold, in November 2013, it obtained the highest price for a work of art at an auction, until Picasso - and now Modigliani - surpassed that record in 2015. This 1876 work by Impressionist master Renoir depicts a dance venue for high society on the outskirts of Paris, the Moulin de la Galette. One of Renoir's most famous works, it exudes the joie de vivre that is characteristic of his style. In 1990, the work was purchased for $78.1 million (adjusted price above) by Japanese buyer Ryoei Saito, along with van Gogh's "Portrait of Dr. Gachet." This portrait of an adolescent holding a pipe and wearing a garland of flowers in his hair was created during the Spanish master's "Rose Period" in 1905. Just a little under a century later, the painting fetched an impressive sum of $104.2 million at a Sotheby's auction in 2004 (price adjusted above). This agonizing character painted by Edvard Munch is one of the most iconic paintings in the world. The Expressionist artist had actually made four versions of it: Three are in Norwegian museums, and the fourth one was sold for the screeching price of $119.9 million in May 2012 at Sotheby's, which would be adjusted to $130.7 million today. Picasso is well represented among the highest earning painters. His 1905 masterpiece "Fillette a la corbeille fleurie" ("Young Girl with a Flower Basket") was sold – along with two other Rose Period paintings – by the artist himself to writer Gertrude Stein in a sale that helped launch his career. The work, which was later part of David and Peggy Rockefeller's collection, sold for $115 million. Inspired by his mistress Marie-Thérèse Walther, Picasso created this painting in a single day in 1932. If you add the eight minutes and six seconds it took for the auction record bid at Christie's in May 2010, it still appears to be well-invested time. Its price could be adjusted to $115.7 million today. Author: Elizabeth Grenier, Kate Müser jm/rc (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.