President Donald Trump is set to meet with House Republicans this week to discuss immigration legislation, facing pressure over his administration's policy of separating migrant children from their parents at the US-Mexico border. The controversial policy has drawn public and political backlash nationwide and has also been criticized by the United Nations. UN human rights chief Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein urged the US to stop the family separations in his opening remarks on Monday, at a meeting of the UN Human Rights council in Geneva, Switzerland. "The thought that any state would seek to deter parents by inflicting such abuse on children is unconscionable," Zeid said. And, in a rare criticism of the United States, a spokeswoman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said: "children must not be traumatized by being separated from their parents. Family unity must be preserved." President Trump has consistently blamed Democrats for the situation, saying their support for passage of a broader immigration bill would end the separations. On Twitter, he wrote that "Democrats can fix their forced family breakup at the border by working with Republicans on new legislation, for a change!" Speaking to broadcaster NBC on Sunday, White House adviser Kellyanne Conway said "nobody likes" breaking up families and "seeing babies ripped from their mothers' arms." Conway also blamed the Democrats, saying if they are serious about overhauling the immigration system, "they'll come together again and try to close these loopholes and get real immigration reform." Some 2,000 children were separated from their families between mid-April and the end of May after the Trump administration announced a new "zero-tolerance" policy and the referral of all illegal entry cases for criminal prosecution. As a result, the children — who are not charged with a crime — are separated from the adults in their families. There is no clear procedure for family reunification. Previous administrations had referred migrants with children to immigration courts. Images of children living in converted buildings near the border and tents being erected to house migrants have led to fierce political debate and comments from some unexpected quarters. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2x22T First lady speaks out Melania Trump has made few public statements to date, but on Sunday her communications director, Stephanie Grisham, told broadcaster CNN: "Mrs. Trump hates to see children separated from their families and hopes both sides of the aisle can finally come together to achieve successful immigration reform." Grisham said Melania Trump "believes we need to be a country that follows all laws, but also a country that governs with heart." Criticism of the president has come from a range of lawmakers, including Republicans in Congress. Senator Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine, said the administration was sending a message to migrants. "If you cross the border with children, your children are going to be ripped away from you. That's traumatizing to the children who are innocent victims, and it is contrary to our values in this country," she said. Californian Democrat Representative Adam Schiff said the administration was "using the grief, the tears, the pain of these kids as mortar to build our wall. And it's an effort to extort a bill to their liking in the Congress." Trump is expected to meet with House Republicans on Tuesday to discuss immigration legislation, including the Trump proposal to build a wall along the border with Mexico. Most Central American migrants travel on top of cargo trains, to reduce the risk of being stopped and deported. Buses are more often stopped by migration officers. Crossing the American border is a challenge. In case they cannot afford a "coyote" — a human trafficker— many of the young men consider carrying drugs as a means to pay for the border crossing that is controlled by drug cartels. Catching a moving train is not without danger: Alex Garcia, who used to be a farmer, lost his leg while trying to get off a moving train. He is recovering at a refugee shelter and doesn't know where to go afterwards. According to Miquel Angel (above) the biggest risk along the road is being kidnapped by organized criminal groups, like the Zetas. Most migrants do not carry a cellphone or a notebook, in case they are caught and extorted. The migrants try to find shelter along the route in one of Mexico’s 52 albergues, or shelters. In Apizaco they are allowed 24 hours to rest, except when they are the victim of a crime or accident. All four men in the picture have permission to stay longer, as they were either shot or otherwise physically injured during their journey. Sometimes the migrants have to wait for days for the next train. Delmin Flores (center), and his two cousins Alejandro Deras and Luis Deras sit in the sun for hours in front of the shelter. They were forced to leave their coffee-growing region in Honduras after coffee prices plummeted. At night, they risk being robbed or killed by organ trade traffickers. Hardly any children or women take the journey by train. The risk of falling into the hands of traffickers or being violated is very high. This woman and child are accompanied by the husband, who has tried the journey more than 17 times. Herdin Varga recounts how he was shot by a guard on the train. The bullets hit him in his arm and neck. One centimeter to the right and he would be dead. He's been given permission to recover in the shelter and is in the process of requesting a temporary permit to travel Mexico so that he can continue his trip by bus. The shelter was founded and funded in 2010 by the Catholic priest Ramiro Sanchez. It later turned into a civil organization, independent of the government. Before meals are served, refugees pray together. Many of the migrants are religious and believe that God will provide protection during their journey. If they've checked out of the shelter, migrants cannot enter again to spend the night. This rule has been installed to protect the safety of the employees who fear that the migrants may have been come into contact with human traffickers. "The shelter is for humanitarian aid, not for people making business out of it," shelter employee Sergio Luna told DW. This group of migrants boarded the only train that passed that day, but it stopped immediately after leaving the railway station. They were forced to walk back to the shelter and try their luck next time. Author: Sanne Derks (Apizaco, Mexico) Protests in New York and Texas In a Father's Day demonstration on Sunday, seven Democrat members of Congress from New York and New Jersey joined hundreds of protesters outside an immigration detention facility in New Jersey to protest the separations. "This must not be who we are as a nation," said Representative Jerrold Nadler. In Texas, Democrat Representative Beto O'Rourke led a march to where a new tent facility for children has been opened. He called the situation "inhumane" and "un-American." "We can do the right thing by this country and for those kids, and not do it at the price of a 2,000-mile, 30-foot-high, $30 billion wall, not doing it at the price of deporting people who are seeking asylum, deporting people in some cases back to certain death, not doing it at the cost of ending family migration, which is the story of this country," O'Rourke said. Since April, Border Patrol agents have been executing Trump's 'zero tolerance' policy toward undocumented immigrants Deadly crash after Border Patrol chase Also Sunday, at least five people died when an SUV vehicle carrying 14 people went out of control after it was chased by US Border Patrol agents in south Texas. Dimmit County Sheriff Marion Boyd said most of the occupants were believed to lack legal permission to be in the US. The driver and one passenger were believed to be US citizens. "This, I think, is a perfect example, of why our borders need to be secured," Boyd said. jm/cmk (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.