Former Tesla employee, Martin Tripp, told US news media Wednesday night that he had not tampered with the carmaker's internal systems and was, instead, a whistleblower who spoke out after seeing "some really scary things" inside the company. Read more: Tesla's Elon Musk slams 'employee sabotage' Speaking to the daily The Washington Post and CNN television, Tripp confirmed that he provided information to Business Insider for a story the news website did earlier this month about the company's raw-material waste. Tripp also said he had been alarmed by what he learned while an employee, including what he claimed were hundreds of Model 3s that had dangerously punctured batteries. The 40-year-old technician, who joined Tesla last October, is seeking an attorney and official protection as a whistleblower. He said he was interrogated at work last week and subsequently fired by a human-resource representative. Tesla accuses him of hacking the automaker's computer system and stealing company secrets. In the interview, Tripp dismissed the claim by saying that he didn't have "the patience for coding." He also said he was not, as Tesla lawyers claimed, disgruntled about not getting a promotion. "That's their generic excuse. I could literally care less," he noted. Read more: Tesla slashes 3,000 jobs in cost-cutting endeavor Tesla sold 33,000 units of its Model X in 2017, according to data from UK-based market researcher JATO Dynamics. That puts the mid-sized luxury car with falcon wing doors in 5th position in the list of last year's best-selling fully electric cars. ...successful nonetheless was the Zotye Zhidou (ZD) from China. Some 42,000 units of the model were shipped last year, with the tiny vehicles becoming increasingly popular in the Asian nation where affordablility can be a universal selling point. Japanese carmaker Nissan introduced its Nissan Leaf back in 2010, banking on e-mobility at an early stage. The five-door hatchback proved the third most sold all-electric vehicle in 2017 (46,000 units). Leaf batteries can be charged to 80-percent capacity in 30 minutes. Tesla Model S cars are able to pick up speed very rapidly thanks to their all-electric powertrain technology. The vehicle features autopilot capabilities, making driving safer and less stressful. Some 47,000 people bought the Model S last year — only one model reached even more buyers. ...China's BAIC EC. The compact electric city vehicle has fared well especially in its home market due to its trendy design and an improved range of 200 kilometers (125 miles) per charge. A record 78,000 units left the showrooms in 2017. Author: Hardy Graupner Theft of company secrets On Wednesday, the US e-car company sued the former employee for allegedly taking large amounts of data about the company's manufacturing system and making what it claims were false statements to the media. The allegations actually fall short of the strong charges of "extensive and damaging sabotage to our operations" that Tesla CEO Elon Musk levelled in an internal email late on Sunday. In the lawsuit filed in the federal court in Nevada, Tesla attorneys said that Tripp wrote software to aid in an elaborate theft of confidential photos and video of Tesla's manufacturing systems. In addition, he is accused of giving journalists false information about the company, including claims that defective batteries had been used in Tesla's Model 3 sedans. Describing Tripp as "disruptive and combative" with colleagues, the attorneys also said he had been disgruntled after being assigned to a new role. As a result of Tripp's conduct, Tesla had suffered "cruel and unjust hardship" and "lost business, lost profits and damage to its goodwill," for which the company was seeking an untold amount in damages to be decided in trial. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2mwOT Smashed hopes In the interview with the Post, Tripp spoke about his disillusionment with Tesla, where he worked in the company's Gigafactory, which produces batteries. He said that he had left his previous job with a medical-device company and moved his family to Nevada to work for Tesla, believing it was "a golden opportunity." "I looked up to Elon, I looked up to Tesla. I was always drooling about the Teslas and wanting to buy one. And I was living the mission: to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy," he said. But quickly he grew disillusioned after seeing what he called the company's waste, unsustainable practices and "how Elon was lying to investors about how many cars they were making." Read more: Tesla shares tank after Musk visibly angered by analysts' 'boring bonehead questions' "I wanted to leave the world better for my son. And I felt I was doing everything but that," he added. Asked about his motives to bring Tesla's shortcoming to light, Tripp said he wanted to shine a light on the potential dangers of the company's cars and, notably, its CEO Elon Musk, whom he described as a "narcissist" who "only cares about himself."