Germany's Foreign Ministry, led by Heiko Maas, said on Monday it would address Grenell's comments with the ambassador when he visits the ministry on Wednesday. Spokesman Christofer Burger said Grenell's inaugural visit would provide an opportunity to "explain how he wants his statements to be understood." In the interview with the right-wing website, Grenell had said he was excited by the rising wave of conservatism within Europe, adding that he saw his task as "empowering" Europe's right-wing governments and budding leaders. He told Breitbart: Kurz's Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) this year formed a governing coalition with the right-wing populist Freedom Party (FPÖ). Austria's young government remains one of the loudest voices in Europe for securing the bloc's external border and has been critical of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy. Rolf Muetzenich, deputy leader of the Social Democrats in parliament, told DW the issue should be addressed swiftly with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. "Clearly the US ambassador sees himself as an extension of a right-wing conservative world movement, and not as a representative of his country entrusted with improving and protecting political, economic and cultural relations between the US and Germany." Muetzenich added that Grenell's actions violated the 1961 Vienna Convention, under which diplomats do not interfere in the domestic affairs of a country. Green party foreign policy expert Franziska Brantner argued that Grenell's comments should not be merely ignored. The Trump administration was doing everythinig it could to "destroy the trans-atlantic alliance and the EU from within," she said. "Strengthening the right-wing and anti-establishment movements in Europe is just another building block in President Trump's isolationism and 'America First' agenda," Brantner told DW. Germany 'losing credibility' on defense Adding fuel to the fire regarding Germany's perceived lack of defense spending, Grenell said that Germany is losing credibility. Echoing US President Donald Trump's gripe about Germany's military commitments, he said: Based on growth predictions, Germany is set to spend just over 1 percent of GDP on defense in the next four years, well short of the 2 percent mark agreed on by NATO allies during the 2014 summit in Wales. Germany's predicament is not helped by the fact that its military needs billions of euros more than envisaged in the latest budget to modernize its aged equipment. Read more: Donald Trump rails against German defense spending shortfall Grenell had already raised eyebrows in Germany's parliament, the Bundestag, despite only formally assuming the ambassadorship last month, by urging German companies doing in business in Iran to leave the country after Trump announced plans to withdraw the US from the Iranian nuclear pact. West Germany officially joined the trans-Atlantic alliance in 1955. However, it wasn't until after reunification in 1990 that the German government considered "out of area" missions led by NATO. From peacekeeping to deterrence, Germany's Bundeswehr has since been deployed in several countries across the globe in defense of its allies. In 1995, Germany participated in its first "out of area" NATO mission as part of a UN-mandated peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the deployment, German soldiers joined other NATO member forces to provide security in the wake of the Bosnian War. The peacekeeping mission included more than 60,000 troops from NATO's member states and partners. Since the beginning of the NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, some 8,500 German soldiers have been deployed in the young country. In 1999, NATO launched an air assault against Serbian forces accused of carrying out a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanian separatists and their civilian supporters. Approximately 550 Bundeswehr troops are still stationed in Kosovo. In 2016, Germany deployed its combat support ship "Bonn" to lead a NATO mission backed by the EU in the Aegean Sea. The mission included conducting "reconnaissance, monitoring and surveillance of illegal crossings" in Greek and Turkish territorial waters at the height of the migration crisis. Germany, Greece and Turkey had requested assistance from the trans-Atlantic alliance. In 2003, Germany's parliament voted to send Bundeswehr troops to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Germany became the third-largest contributor of troops and led the Regional Command North. More than 50 German troops were killed during the mission. Nearly a thousand soldiers are still deployed in Afghanistan as part of Resolute Support. Forming part of NATO's "enhanced forward presence" in the Baltic states, 450 Bundeswehr soldiers have been deployed to Lithuania so far in 2017. The battalion-size battlegroups there are led by Germany, Canada, the UK and US to reinforce collective defense on the alliance's eastern flank. It forms the "biggest reinforcement of Alliance collective defence in a generation," according to NATO. The Bundeswehr is due to take over leadership of NATO's multinational Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) at the start of 2019. The rapid reaction force has been set up to counter potential Russian aggression on the alliance's eastern flank. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.