Argentina's World Cup warm-up match against Israel in Jerusalem has been canceled following protests by pro-Palestinian groups.  The Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires on Tuesday confirmed the cancellation of the match, which was scheduled to take place at the Teddy Kollek Stadium on Saturday. "The Embassy of Israel regrets to communicate the suspension of the match between Israel and Argentina," it said, citing "threats and provocations" against Barcelona star and Argentina captain Lionel Messi, one of the world's most famous footballers, as grounds for the decision. Read more: Israel Supreme Court upholds 
use  of lethal force against Palestinians during protests Palestinian anger Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman on Wednesday said canceling the games was giving in to hate. "It's a shame that Argentina's footballing nobility did not withstand the pressure from Israeli-hating inciters," he wrote on Twitter. The soccer match had already been shrouded in controversy after the head of the Palestinian football association, Jibril Rajoub, called on Argentina to abandon the game and told Arabs to burn posters and shirts featuring Messi if the match went ahead. Rajoub, who has long opposed Israel's participation in international soccer, had criticized the choice of location. The stadium is located in an Israeli neighborhood in western Jerusalem that had been the site of a Palestinian village before Israel's creation in 1948. The convoy of Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah of the West Bank-based Fatah group was targeted as he made a rare visit to Gaza on March 13. The Palestinian Authority said it held Hamas responsible, having failed to provide adequate security. Hamas claimed the attack was aimed at hurting efforts to achieve unity and reconciliation. Palestinians in the Gaza Strip announce a major, peaceful demonstration to be held on the border to claim the right to return to lands now held by Israel. Israel refuses the right to return. Some 30,000 Palestinians take part in the first of the demonstrations on March 30, marking Land Day, named for the 1976 Arab protests against Israeli plans to expropriate land. Some demonstrators ran at the border fence and 16 were killed by Israeli troops with others injured, and some dying later. Speaking on April 9 in the Israeli town of Sderot, near Gaza, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said: "We have one clear and simple rule and we seek to express it constantly: If someone tries to attack you — rise up and attack him. We will not allow, here on the Gaza border, them to hurt us. We will hurt them." The third day of demonstrations on April 13 began with organizers encouraging people to walk on an Israeli flag placed at the protest near the border. Palestinians ran to help a young man injured during the border protest on April 13. Stones had been thrown at border guards and the Israeli troops fired on the demonstrators. Some 45 Palestinians have died and hundreds have been injured between March 30 and April 27. Protest continued on April 20th, with some Palestinian protesters using kites to transport Molotov cocktails and firebombs over the fence. Israeli snipers killed at least four more Palestinians on April 20th, including a 15-year-old boy. The UN Middle East envoy dubbed the killing "outrageous." US President Donald Trump's daugher Ivanka is part of the delegation that opened the new US Embassy in Jerusalem. The transfer of the embassy triggered a fresh wave of protests in which 62 people were killed. The deaths have considerably heightened tensions in the area. As the US celebrated its embassy move from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem, Palestinian protests escalated. The events coincided with the 70th anniversary of the foundation of modern-day Israel, and Nakba Day, when Palestinians recall those who fled or were expelled as Israel was established. Palestinians carried away a protester injured on May 15th after demonstrations marking the 70th anniversary of Nakba. Salah al-Bardaweel, a Hamas official said on Palestinian television that all but 12 of the dead were members of Hamas. Mahmoud Abbas the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization is planning to pursue a war crimes complaint against Israel at the International Criminal Court. Read more: Palestinians call on ICC to investigate alleged Israeli human rights crimes "This match has become a political tool," Rajoub said. "The Israeli government is trying to give it political significance by insisting it be held in Jerusalem." Hours before the cancellation was announced, some pro-Palestinian protesters had gathered outside the Argentina team's training ground in Barcelona, Spain and waved Argentina jerseys smeared with red paint. Read more: Israel launches retaliatory airstrikes in Gaza after Hamas rocket attacks 'Sports-washing' The Palestinian group that regularly calls for anti-Israel boycotts and sanctions greeted the cancellation, slamming what it said was Israel's "sports-washing of its crimes against Palestinians." Tensions between Israelis and Palestinians have flared up in recent months following US President Donald Trump's decision to move the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and violent protests along the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip. Israeli troops have killed more than 115 Palestinian protesters, while nearly 3,700 have been wounded. Israel has said its soldiers acted in self-defense. amp/se (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.