Russian President Vladimir Putin used his televised call-in show on Thursday to speak out against commodity tariffs imposed by the United States on its western allies. Taking questions during the annual marathon phone-in, Putin also talked up Russia's long-term economic growth, ruled out withdrawing Russian troops from Syria in the near future, and warned Ukraine of "serious consequences" were it to launch military action against pro-Russian rebels during the soccer World Cup. Read more: Vladimir Putin: 'Russia does not want to split EU' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2z4Qg What Putin said about US tariffs Putin said he warned European leaders back in 2007 about the risk of US tariffs, only for his warnings to go ignored. The president told Russian viewers: Putin said the steel tariffs imposed by the US on its Western allies effectively amounted to "sanctions," adding: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vdao What Putin said about EU security Putin also appeared to broach the idea of a new European security set-up, saying US President Donald Trump was seeking to upset the current order. However, Putin dispelled the threat of a Third World War, saying: Read more: Opinion: Germany’s illusions about Putin and Russia Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xHBT Talk of Russian meddling in US election a 'joke': Putin again rejected outright any notion that the Kremlin may have interfered in the 2016 US presidential election to favor Trump, labeling such allegations as "complete nonsense" and a "joke." No plans for Syria withdrawal: The Russian president said that Russian troops would remain in Syria "as long as it benefits Russia." However, Putin stressed that Russia's air base at Hemeimeem and Tartous naval base do not host any permanent facilities. Russia entered the Syria conflict in 2015, tipping the war in Syrian President Bashar Assad's favor. A warning shot at Kyiv: Putin warned Ukraine not to escalate tensions against pro-Russian rebels in the Donbass during the coming soccer World Cup. "If this happens I think it would have very serious consequences for the Ukrainian government in general," he said. The World Cup in Russia is set to begin on June 14 and goes on until July 15. Economic upturn: Having cultivated a reputation as a guarantor of Russian stability, Putin talked up the Russian economy, saying the country had entered "a trajectory of sustainable economic growth." Overall, Russia's economy grew by 1.5 percent last year, he added. Putin vows no say over successor: Putin also addressed the question almost always put to him during the annual phone in — who will succeed him at the helm of the Kremlin? Putin vowed that he would have no say matter and that it would be up to the Russian people to decide. Read more: How the World Cup will impact the Russian economy Born in St.Petersburg in 1952, Putin signed up with the Soviet intelligence agency the KGB right out of law school in 1975. His first assignment was to monitor foreign nationals and consulate employees in his home city, then called Leningrad. He was then assigned to Dresden, East Germany. He reportedly burned hundreds of KGB files after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Putin was one of the deputies to St Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak from 1991 to 1996. Sobchak met Putin at Leningrad State University and the two men were close until Sobchak's death in 2000. Despite accusations of corruption, Sobchak was never charged. Putin quickly leapt from St.Petersburg to Moscow. In 1997, President Boris Yeltsin gave Putin a mid-level position on his staff — a position Putin would use to cultivate important political friendships that would serve him in the decades to come. Putin was deeply affected by Anatoly Sobchak's death in 2000. After the apprentice outstripped his teacher politically, Sobchak became a vocal early proponent of Putin's bid for the presidency. A year earlier, Putin used his political connections to have fraud allegations against Sobchak dropped, the beginning of a pattern for friends of the former spy. In June 2000, Boris Yeltsin stepped down, leaving his prime minister to become interim leader. As he was running for his successful presidential campaign, corruption allegations from his time on the city government in St.Petersburg resurfaced. Marina Salye, the lawmaker who brought up the claims, was silenced and forced to leave the city. When Putin was constitutionally barred from running for a third consecutive term in 2008, his Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev ran in his stead. When Medvedev was elected, he appointed Putin as premier. This led to criticism of a "tandemocracy," in Moscow, with many people believing that Medvedev was Putin's puppet. In March 2018, Vladimir Putin was elected to his fourth term as president. Because the presidential term has been extended, this means Putin will be in power for the next six years. However, the election was marred by a lack of opposition to the incumbent, as well as allegations of vote tampering and ballot-stuffing. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher dm/kms (AP, Reuters, dpa)