DW: As a journalist, you went undercover to work at Germany's Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) between February and May 2016. How did that happen? Abdullah Khan: I was very interested in the migration of refugees. Working for [German newspaper] Bild, I joined some refugees traveling along part of the Balkan route. That's where I got the idea, because all refugees who arrive in Germany file their asylum applications with the BAMF. They were running newspaper ads, looking for people to work there. So I applied. I quit my job at Bild and started my job as an administrative assistant. It took three months from applying to starting the job. Was is easy to get in? You had no prior experience in this field. Yes, it was rather easy. I think I met some basic criteria. I speak four languages, for example. But at the time, they needed to hire some 3,000 extra people so they probably took anyone who they thought could get the hang of things, even without any relevant work experience. Read more: German asylum scandal: Bribery charges are 'nonsense,' says lawyer Did you receive training? What did you learn? When I started they had just cut the 10-week training period to 10 days. They gave me a quick introduction to the data management system and the steps we would have to take applicants through. That was it, a crash course. To this day, I'm not sure what kind of documents I made my applicants sign. There were many pages of legal declaimers which nobody explained to me. As an administrative assistant, you were not in charge of granting or rejecting asylum applications. What exactly did you do? People came to me who wanted to file their first asylum application, or a subsequent application. Asylum-seekers dropped off questionnaires with personal information they had completed with the help of translators. I then typed this information into our computer system. I issued initial residential permits and had them sign legal disclaimers. On April 20, 2018, a number of employees at the regional BAMF office in Bremen were accused of having illegally accepted hundreds of asylum applicants between 2013 and 2017, mainly from Iraq's Yazidi community. Bremen public prosecutors announced that six people, including the former director of the Bremen BAMF office, were under investigation for alleged corruption in about 1,200 cases. Steffen Seibert, spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, reacted swiftly to the allegations, saying it would be wrong to speculate on what consequences the incident could have for the BAMF immigration offices. He said that the "extremely serious allegations" would first have to be resolved. The BAMF scandal could be a major embarrassment to Chancellor Merkel's open-door policy to refugees. A few weeks into the scandal, German media reported that 13 further regional BAMF branches were going to be subject to checks regarding their approval of asylum applications. The branches had apparently come under scrutiny for showing noticeable differences in the number of asylum applications accepted or rejected in comparison to other offices. Some 8,000 applications will have to be re-checked. A month into the scandal, details emerged that BAMF had been informed about the possible improprieties in Bremen earlier than thought, German news magazine Der Spiegel reported. The irregularities were reportedly flagged back in February 2017. In the light of the growing scandal, BAMF head Jutta Cordt announced that some 18,000 asylum decisions made in Bremen since 2000 now had to be re-checked. German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer meanwhile confirmed that he would testify before a special meeting of the Bundestag internal affairs committee to be convened at the request of the Green Party. The committee hopes to avoid a full-blown parliamentary investigation, which two other opposition parties — the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) and the center-right FDP — are calling for. This might be the man who would have to answer some serious questions if a comprehensive parliamentary inquiry should be launched. Thomas de Maiziere was Germany's interior minister until the beginning of the year, overseeing the management of asylum application at the height of the refugee crisis. De Maiziere, an ally of Merkel's, criticized the shortcomings of the assessment system in the past. On May 23, the German Interior Ministry prohibited the regional BAMF office in Bremen from deciding whether individual refugees will be given asylum in the country. Seehofer said an internal BAMF report had shown that "legal regulations and internal policies" had been "disregarded" at the center. The city of Bremen has said Germany's Federal Criminal Police are now part of the inquiry into the wide-ranging corruption. The decision came after a crisis meeting on the scandal surrounding the city's asylum procedure for refugees. Author: Sertan Sanderson A record number of asylum applications were made in 2016. Almost 750,000 applications were filed. What did this mean for those working at the BAMF? I had expected to be required to work extra fast. But there were times when we could not work for days because the computer system was broken, or when we did not receive new files. Due to these internal problems we were sometimes forced to sit around. Read more: Germany's asylum system in numbers I was also responsible for sending out letters to applicants on whether or not they wold be allowed to stay. When I arrived to work in the morning there were boxes of letters to be processed waiting for me. I got started and was not even halfway through the first box, when two more boxes would be brought in. It was an incredible amount of work. And it never stopped. It was like working on an assembly line. Stamping documents, and more documents, and even more, without knowing what I was actually doing. Piles of files and hordes of people, every day. I will never forget that. How did your colleagues deal with this pressure? My experience was that BAMF employees did what they could. The current crisis should not be blamed on them. They are doing what they are supposed to do. The atmosphere was tense due to the intense workload. But I was impressed with how patiently my colleagues dealt with applicants. It was tiresome when you had an applicant sitting before you who was blatantly lying, for example about his or her age. That was stressful. What did you do when you suspected someone was lying? That is always a difficult situation. I once had an applicant who looked 50 but claimed to be just 24. His explanations was that he is an actor, and that actors look older because of their work. In that case you make a note in their file that their age is probably incorrect. So you hope the final decision-maker checks this. The BAMF processed a record number of asylum applications in 2016 Read more: BAMF office in Bremen allowed at least two extremists to enter Germany Were you explicitly asked to work extra fast? Not directly. But we were told during our training how many minutes each step should take. There were lists where we should say how many files we processed each week — little things that increased the pressure. Could you have manipulated the applications? Yes, of course. That would have been easy. Every administrative assistant has access to the data system. It lists how old an applicant is, where he or she comes from, and reasons for fleeing. Even administrative assistants like me could have changed whatever they wanted. But in those four months that I worked there nobody offered me money to manipulate the files. In 2016, the BAMF was criticized for not processing applications quickly enough. Was this a fair criticism? You need to be careful about that. I do not think employees are to blame. But the politicians should have given more support to and stabilized the department in earlier years. That did not happen. I worked there in 2016. Now, two years have passed, and nothing has changed. If you don't scrutinize the mistakes made over the years, where will it end? Read more: Bavaria plans tougher approach to asylum-seekers in Germany How did your time there come to an end? After a while, all work processes kept repeating themselves. That meant I could finish my research. I quit and then wrote my report for BILD. I warned some former colleagues about what was coming before publishing the piece. I was surprised by their reaction. They thought it was exciting that someone finally publicly reported about their work. Abdullah Khan works as a reporter for German newspaper Bild.