+++++Refresh the page for the latest updates+++++ LIVE SCORE: Portugal 0-1 Uruguay (Cavani 7') 40' - There is audible anticipation every time Ronaldo picks up the ball. He throws in a few stepovers before giving the ball up. Ends up watching, seemingly in anguish, as it makes it way to the left flank. He then tries to attack the cross and ends up headbutting Guedes more than anything. That's the latest from Ronaldo watch! 37' - Cavani wins a free-kick about 30 yards from his own goal. Kind of tells you everything you need to know about how deep Uruguay are sitting and how hard he's working. 35' - Caceras' cross is flicked on by Vecino, but Cavani can't control his shot on the bounce. 34' - The difference between the two sides right now... Edinson Cavani heads home his second goal of the World Cup 32' - Free-kick for Portugal. Ronaldo's effort loops off the wall and out of harm's way. 31' - In Diego Godin, Jose Gimenez, Jose Fonte and Pepe, you have four of the most old-school, no-nonsense defenders around. None of them are giving an inch. which makes Suarez's pin-point cross from earlier all the more impressive. 29' -  Portugal have lost each of their last nine World Cup games in which they’ve conceded the first goal. 28' - Ronaldo and Co. have had 62% of possession so far and are starting to turn up the pressure. 26' - CHANCE! Joao Mario sends in a free-kick, which somehow manages to bounce through a number of bodies. Jose Fonte was the closest to it. all it needed was a touch. 25' - An early goal is exactly what this game needed to steer clear of the pre-match predictions of an ugly game of football. Portugal are on top, but aren't really troubling this disciplined Uruguay side, who look ready to pounce on any mistake made. 22' - SAVE! Free-kick for Uruguay. 25 yards out. Suarez goes low and through the wall with the effort, which is well saved by Rui Patricio! He did really well to react in time. 20' - Ronaldo cuts in from the right, across the face of goal, but is stopped in his tracks. It's worked to Guedes, but his cross is headed clear by Godin. 18' - Ricardo Pereira's cross from the right wing is gobbled up by Muslera. He'll take those all night long. 16' - Goncalo Guedes is the latest to chance his arm from range only to see his shot blocked by one of the numerous Uruguayans behind the ball. 15' - This game is a lot more open than I thought it would be. 14' - CHANCE! Luis Suarez finds himself one-on-two in the final third, drops the shoulder and gets the shot off. However, a deflection on the ball takes all the pace out of the effort. 13' - SHOT! Ronaldo tries it from 30 yards and sees his shot blocked. It may take one of those to break Uruguay down though. 12' - Worth remebering that Uruguay haven't conceded at the World Cup. In fact, they haven't conceded in the calendar year. 10' - CHANCE! Jose Fonte heads wide at the back post, but it wouldn't have counted as he was adjudged to have fouled his marker. 9' - Portugal are looking a little shell shocked right now. 7' - GOAL! Luis Suarez picks out Edinson Cavani at the back post, who heads home with aplomb to break the deadlock. Uruguay's deadly duo have looked very lively in the opening exchanges and gets their just rewards. Cavani switches the play to Suarez, who beats his man before whipping in a stunning cross, the pace of which meant Cavani just needed to get a touch to turn it home. 6' - SAVE! Ronaldo seems to be relishing the challenge, plays a one-two with Bernardo Silva before getting a first-time shot off. A comfortable save for Muslera. 5' - Jose Fonte goes sliding in the concede the first corner. Godin and Pepe get a talking to for their tussling, but nothing comes of the corner.... Ronaldo tries to break and gets clattered. 3' - CHANCE! Joao Mario's cross is deep towards the back post. Bernardo Silva does well to get his ehad to it, but can only put it behind for a goal kick. 2' - Cavani vs Pepe: 1-0 to Pepe who wins a foul in an aerial duel! 1' - Cavani looks for any early through ball to Suarez which is cut out. Portugal give possession right back to Uruguay though. KICK-OFF! Uruguay get the action underway. Meanwhile, Ronaldo has equalled another record. The question is whether he'll have a chance to break it in the quarter finals? 19:58 - Muslera to finally be beaten? Uruguay are the only side yet to concede in Russia. Fernando Muslera has faced just six shots on target, but should be in for a much busier night against Portugal! 19:56 - Portugal, tournament specialists? Portugal have lost only one of their last 17 games at major tournaments if you don't count losses on penalties. On the flip side though, they've lost their last three World Cup knockout games. 19:52 - Ronaldo vs. Suarez Cristiano Ronaldo has four goals to his name, Luis Suarez has two. Both sides are reliant on their star's producing when it matter most. The thing is Portugal and Uruguay aren't known for conceding that often. Some call it ugly, others call it effective. Hopefully the clash of styles won't result in a stalemate. 19:50 - Team news Here's how they line-up... 19:45 - Ronaldo's time to shine? We've already lost Lionel Messi from the World Cup 2018 in Russia after France's win over Argentina, surely Cristiano Ronaldo can't follow suit? We can't lose the two best players in the world on the same day, can we?