Washington's foreign policy establishment need not worry. Emily Haber's US counterpart immediately aggravated lawmakers and diplomats in his new host country with various tweets and interviews since staring his post recently as President Donald Trump's point man in Germany. Berlin's new ambassador to the US prefers a different style, according to former US officials who have worked with her. First, Haber, who will be Germany's first female envoy to Washington when she officially starts her post later this month, is not known to tweet. But second, and more importantly, she is a trained diplomat and not a member of the Trump administration, said Julianne Smith, who served as US Vice President Joe Biden's deputy national security adviser and the Pentagon's top European policy official during the Obama administration. Read more: Who is Richard Grenell, the US ambassador to Berlin? "I would never expect Emily to start her tenure here in Washington in the same style — in fact I would expect quite the opposite," said Smith, who got to know Haber through various meetings in which both participated during their respective tenures. "I think she is really dynamic, I think she is pragmatic, she is easy to deal with and she is somebody who has not just a high IQ, but also a high EQ — meaning emotional intelligence," added Smith, now the director of the trans-Atlantic security program at the Center for a New American Security. "I have admired her over the years." Trans-Atlantic connections Haber is a seasoned official who has held very senior positions within the German government for the past decade. Most recently she served for four years as deputy minister in the interior ministry, where she dealt with counterterrorism and law enforcement issues, but also the refugees and the Snowden spying revelations — all thorny topics that required close cooperation and sometimes disagreement with Washington. Read more: US-German conflicts — what you need to know Haber, who earlier in her career was posted in Russia and Turkey, also served for several years as deputy minister in the foreign ministry, where she played a key role representing Germany in the negotiations that lead to the Iran nuclear accord — another thorny topic that necessitated working closely with Washington. Haber helped negotiate the Iran nuclear accord from which Trump walked away recently Taken together, said Jeffrey Rathke, a former state department official who worked with her while heading the US embassy in Berlin's political section, "that gives her a breadth of experience that goes beyond the political and economic issues that are important in the German-American relationship." That's because, he added, Haber is also keenly familiar with important issues like law enforcement and counterterrorism cooperation. "She is somebody with a very firm grasp of her portfolio and a very effective interlocutor and quite impressive," said Rathke, now the deputy director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies' Europe Program. Read more: Germany's answer to 'America First' is 'Europe United' During their remarks about Haber, Rathke and Smith were keen to emphasize that her predecessor, Peter Wittig, who will become ambassador to Britain, had done a excellent job representing Germany in the US. Adaptive diplomat While Germany's new ambassador in Washington is an experienced public official, she is also someone that can adjust her behavior to new situations and circumstances, according to the former US officials. That will help her as she faces the difficult task of representing a country that has increasingly come in the crosshairs of the Trump administration on key issues such as trade, defense and immigration. "I have seen Emily in meetings where she has adapted to her audience or a group that is less familiar with the subject," said Smith. "She changes the way she engages and the way she operates and I think this is very important right now." Read more: Opinion: Time to scrap the G7 Adapting to Trump's style, which, "doesn't follow normal protocol and doesn't operate the way past administrations have," is essential to remain engaged amid a political climate that has become even more contentious than it already was before the last presidential election, added Smith. Haber is said to be close to German Chancellor Angela Merkel Similarities with Merkel Another asset of Haber, who both former officials described as a strong trans-Atlanticist, is her reputed close connection to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. "We all and she will benefit from being close to the chancellor and that will increase her effectiveness and the way people treat her in this city," said Smith. In fact, Rathke, detected certain similarities between the chancellor and the ambassador when the two worked together. "She is somebody who reminds me in a way a little bit of the chancellor. She is even-keeled and has a deep grasp of the issues she is dealing with and addresses them in a quite factual and analytical way." All of it — her experience, her style and her closeness to the chancellor will open many doors for her in Washington, predicted the former officials. Additionally, noted Smith, while Haber will work far away from Germany in Washington, her high-profile posting here will also send a message back to Europe: "I have also been impressed with her because she is a woman and frankly I find women at her level to be in short supply — particularly on the other side of the Atlantic, although we have issues on our side as well." The European Union is the US' largest export market, accounting for about one-fifth of all US exports. Similarly, one-fifth of EU exports go to the United States. EU-US trade in goods and services was €1,069.3 billion in 2017. The EU imported €256.2 billion in goods from the US, and exported €375.8 billion. The main exports and imports between the EU and US fall into the categories of machinery and vehicles, chemicals and other manufactured goods. Combined, they accounted for 89 percent of EU exports and imports with the US in 2017. In all three categories, as well as food and drink, the EU had a trade surplus. The US had a trade surplus in raw materials and energy. At €167 billion, machinery and vehicles were the largest EU export category to the US, accounting for 44.4 percent of goods exports. The €111.5 billion in machinery and transport equipment was the largest EU import from the US, accounting for 43.6 percent of imports. At the end of May, the Trump administration imposed a 25 percent tariff on EU steel and 10 percent tariff on aluminum. Steel and aluminum exports to the United States were worth €3.58 billion in 2017. In response, the European Union has developed a list of products it may subject to retaliatory tariffs. These include typical American products like peanut butter, bourbon whiskey, Harley Davidson motorcycles, jeans and orange juice. The exports targeted by the EU are worth about €2.8 billion annually, according to EU officials. For services, the EU imports amounted to €219.3 billion and exports €218 billion. The top services were in professional and management services, intellectual property, travel and education. About a third of EU-US trade consists of intra-company transfers. Author: Chase Winter 