Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was declared the winner of presidential elections on Sunday, ushering in a new political system that dramatically expands his powers. Erdogan won an "absolute majority" of votes, the head of the Supreme Election Council, Sadi Guven, confirmed early Monday, after the opposition cast doubt over the election results. The snap elections called by Erdogan were the first time Turkish voters had been to the polls for parliamentary and presidential elections following an April 2017 referendum that approved changing Turkey from a parliamentary to presidential system. The new system gives the president expansive powers that critics and the West say sound the death knell for Turkish democracy. Victory speech "Our people have given us the job of carrying out the presidential and executive posts," Erdogan said on television from Istanbul before heading to Ankara to address party supporters. "I hope nobody will try to cast a shadow on the results and harm democracy in order to hide their own failure." With more than 95 percent of ballot boxes opened, Erdogan had secured around 53 percent of the presidential vote, enough to avoid a second round runoff, according to election results published on state media Anatolia Agency. Presidential contender Muharrem Ince of the Republican People's Party (CHP) had 31 percent of the presidential vote. Other Erdogan rivals, Meral Aksener of the right-wing Good Party and the imprisoned Selahattin Demirtas of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), each had around 8 percent. Main rival Ince only conceded defeat on Monday morning, several hours after the unofficial results were published. Speaking at the headquarters of the center-left Republican People's Party (CHP) party, Ince addressed Erdogan directly asking him to "represent 80 million," referring to the entire population of Turkey. "You are the president of us all," he said. At the same time, Ince slammed the vote as "unfair" and "marred by blood," and warned Turkey was slipping towards one-man rule. Ince also ejected a TV crew from the state-funded broadcaster TRT from his press conference, accusing them of bias. "You didn't broadcast my three major rallies. Please just leave," Ince told them before starting the speech. Erdogan's alliance wins, but his AKP loses majority Erdogan's People's Alliance, which includes his Justice and Development Party (AKP) and the ultra-nationalist Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), combined were on pace to win 54 percent of the vote for parliament, according to Anatolia. That is enough to give the two parties a 343 seat majority in the 600-seat parliament, according to early results. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/30DGN However, the AKP secured only about 42 percent, meaning with 293 seats it lost its parliamentary majority for the first time in nearly a decade and a half. Meanwhile, MHP appeared to do far better than polls and political observers had anticipated with about 11 percent support. "The electorate has decisively approved Erdogan as president as well as his presidential system, but with one caveat, they did not give AKP a majority in the parliament," Kemal Kirisci, the director of the Turkey Project at the Brookings Institution, told DW. "This will weaken Erdogan’s strongman rule and force his hand to seek shifting coalitions, leaving the opposition to play a role of checks and balances." The opposition National Alliance grouping together with the nationalist Good Party, secularist CHP and a small Islamic-leaning party were set to win 34 percent of the vote. Crucially, the left-wing HDP was on track to win 11 percent of the vote, suggesting that some non-Kurdish voters may have strategically voted for the party. Under Turkey's complex electoral rules, if the HDP had failed to clear the 10 percent threshold nearly all of its seats would have gone to the AK Party. Voter turnout for the election was a high 87 percent. More than 59 million Turkish citizens, including about 3 million living abroad (mainly in Germany), were eligible to take part. Read more: Half of Turks in Germany voted in 2018 election In Turkey and abroad, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has a polarizing effect. He has been described as a neo-Ottoman "sultan" as well as an authoritarian leader. From his early beginnings campaigning for Islamist causes to leading NATO's second largest military as the president of Turkey, DW explores the rise of the Turkish leader. After years of moving up the ranks of the Islamist-rooted Welfare Party, Erdogan was elected mayor of Istanbul in 1994. But four years later, the party was ruled unconstitutional on the grounds it threatened Turkey's secularist nature, and was disbanded. He was later jailed for four months for a controversial public reading of a poem, and consequently lost his mayorship over the conviction. Erdogan co-founded the Justice and Development Party (AKP), which won a majority of seats in 2002. He was made prime minister in 2003. During his first years in office, Erdogan worked on providing social services, improving the economy and implementing democratic reforms. But some have argued that his premiership was also marked by a religious shift in the political sphere. While Turkey's constitution guarantees the country's secular nature, observers believe Erdogan has managed to purge the "old secularist guard." The Turkish leader has said that one of his goals is to raise a "pious generation." Erdogan's supporters have hailed the Turkish leader's initiatives, arguing that they've reversed years of discrimination against practicing Muslims. In July 2016, a failed military coup targeting Erdogan and his government left more than 200 people dead, including civilians and soldiers. In the wake of the coup attempt, Erdogan declared a state of emergency and vowed to "clean up" the military. "In Turkey, armed forces are not governing the state or leading the state. They cannot," he said. Since the failed coup, authorities have launched a nationwide crackdown, arresting more than 50,000 people in the armed forces, police, judiciary, schools and media. Erdogan has blamed Fethullah Gulen, a self-exiled cleric in the US and former ally, and his supporters of trying to undermine the government. But rights groups believe the allegations are a means to solidify his power and influence. While Erdogan enjoys significant support in Turkey and the Turkish expatriate community, he has been criticized for his heavy-handed policies and military campaigns against Kurdish militants following the collapse of a peace process in 2015. This January, Erdogan launched a deadly offensive into the northern Syrian enclave of Afrin, an operation that was widely condemned by human rights groups. Having served as Turkey's president since 2014, Erdogan is looking to extend his time in office with elections in June. The elections will mark Turkey's transition to an executive-style presidency. But the OSCE has warned that Turkey's media landscape is dominated by groups with ties to the ruling AKP. Observers believe the elections may herald a new era for Turkey – for better or worse. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Blow to opposition For the opposition, Sunday's vote was viewed as a last chance to reverse 16 years of increasingly authoritarian rule by Erdogan and his AKP. The elections had originally been scheduled for November 2019, but Erdogan brought them forward. Polls leading up to the vote had indicated that Erdogan might not win the first round, but would likely win the presidency in a second round runoff against Ince. Supporters of Erdogan were quick to celebrate his victory The opposition alliance and HDP had hoped to at least capitalize on economic and political discontent to prevent the AKP-led alliance with the MHP from securing a majority in the now considerably weakened parliament. Having come short of expectations, "a great deal now hinges on how the opposition chooses to respond and what happens to the enormous energy generated by the opposition campaign," Nicholas Danforth, a senior policy analyst at the Bipartisan Policy Center, told DW. Meanwhile, Erdogan still faces a range of economic and diplomatic problems, "having promised his supporters that he will now have the power to resolve them single-handedly," Danforth said. Ultra-nationalists surprise One of the big suprises of the election was that the MHP did so well. The party had been written off when the ultra-nationalists splintered, with Aksener forming the Good Party due to the backing MHP leader Devlet Bahceli has given to Erdogan. "The MHP number is shocking," Aaron Stein, a senior resident fellow at the Atlantic Council, told DW. The MHP's success shows that Erdogan made the right calculation to join forces with the ultra-nationalists under new electoral rules that allowed alliances. However, the electorial coalitions don't necessarily transfer into parliament, and the suprising extent of the MHP's gains now gives it the potential to play a key role in parliament. Alternatively, only 8 seats short of a majority in parliament, the AK Party could attempt to poach seats from other parties to gain a one-party majority in parliament and rule without the MHP. After years of free market reforms, Turkey's transition slowly begins to reverse. Islamist Abdullah Gul's candidacy as president in 2007 marks a clear shift away from secularist policies, and strains relations between the ruling AKP and the military. However, with broad support from both conservative Muslims and liberals, the AKP wins the parliamentary elections and Gul is elected president. Then-Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan tables a constitutional reform increasing parliamentary control of the judiciary and army, effectively allowing the government to pick judges and senior military officials. The amendment, which is combined with measures also aimed at protecting child rights and the strengthening the right to appeal, passed by a wide margin in a public referendum. Pent-up anger directed by young people at Erdogan, Gul and the Islamist-rooted AKP hits a boiling point in May 2013. The violent police breakup of a small sit-in aimed at protecting Istanbul's Gezi Park spurs one of the fiercest anti-government protests in years. Eleven people are killed and more than 8,000 injured, before the demonstrations eventually peter out a month later. A fragile ceasefire deal between the Turkish government and the Kurdish rebel PKK group breaks under the weight of tensions aggravated by the war in Syria. Military forces resume operations in the mostly Kurdish southeast of Turkey. In early 2016, the Kurdistan Freedom Hawks (TAK) — a breakaway PKK faction — claim responsibility for two bombings in Ankara, each killing 38 people. A military coup attempt against the government shakes Turkey to its core and briefly turns the country into a war zone. Some 260 civilians die in overnight clashes with the army across five major cities. Erdogan, however, rallies supporters and the following morning rebel soldiers are ambushed by thousands of civilians on the Bosporus Bridge. The troops eventually drop their guns and surrender. In the aftermath of the failed coup, Erdogan announces a state of emergency, leading to arrests of tens of thousands of suspected coup sympathizers and political opponents. Among those detained are military and judiciary officials and elected representatives from the pro-Kurdish HDP party. The purge is later expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. As part of Erdogan's crackdown against supposed "terrorist sympathizers," Turkey becomes one of the world's leading jailers of journalists, according to Reporters Without Borders. The government shuts down around 110 media outlets in the year following the coup and imprisons more than 100 journalists, including German-Turkish correspondent Deniz Yücel. With a referendum on expanding Erdogan's presidential powers set for April 2016, AKP officials look to galvanize support among Turks living in Europe, particularly in Germany and the Netherlands. However, the Netherlands forbids Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu from landing in the country, while Germany opts to cancel two rallies. Erdogan accuses both countries of Nazi-style repression. Erdogan narrowly wins the referendum vote expanding his power. As a result, Turkey's parliamentary system is abolished in favor of a strong executive presidency. Erdogan is also allowed to remain in power potentially until 2029. However, international election monitors claim that opposition voices were muzzled and that media coverage was dominated by figures from the "yes" campaign. Author: David Martin 'Unfair playing field' In the run-up to the vote, the opposition had expressed concerns over possible fraud due to recent changes in the electoral law and allegations of irregularities in the April 2017 constitutional election. Alongside international observers, opposition parties and NGOs deployed up to half a million people at polling stations to monitor the election. The campaign was also run in an environment where the AK Party and Erdogan held incumbent advantages, with massive resources, the power of the state and domination over the media. The country is still under a state of emergency implemented in the wake of the July 2016 failed coup attempt. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.