++++++Refresh the page for the latest updates++++++ Latest: Morocco 0-0 Iran 68' - Persistent fouls from both sides are preventing the game finding it's rhythm in the second half. Iran will be the happier if it stays this way. 64' - With both of these sides set to face Spain and Portugal in Group B, you have to think that, while Iran are unadventurous going forward, they are demonstratring qualities that will frustrate the two Iberian sides. Morocco for all their attractive play today, won't be afforded the same luxuries and have shown enough vulnerability on the counter to cause concern. 61' - Goalscoring opportunities are proving hard to come by for both sides. The decibel levels raise when Morocco are awarded a corner, which comes to nothing. 54' - Iran are doing a much better job of stifling Morocco's most enterprising advances in the second half. While Carlos Queiroz's men aren't demonstrating a lot of attacking threat themselves, they will be pleased with how tight they're keeping things are the back. 48' - More good work from Nordin Amrabat on the right wing brings about the first chance fo the second half. Unfortunately, having misread the flight of Amrabat's cross, Harit can't turn his volley on target. SECOND HALF! We're back underway. Are we on course for the first goalless game of the World Cup 2018 or can one of these sides take command of the encounter? HALF TIME! The Bundesliga Rookie of the Season has looked very lively for Morocco. HALF TIME! A worthy cause... HALF TIME! It's still deadlocked at the break between Morocco and Iran. Morocco have enjoyed the lion's share of possession as well as more goalscoring chances, but it was Iran who went closest to opening their account with Azmoun's golden opportunity on the stroke of half time. Iran will potentially look back on that missed chance as a turning point, while for Morocco it will serve as a warning shot they need to heed if they're to turn their domination into goals. 43' - Best chance of the game and it goes to Iran. For the first time the underdogs break in behind on the counter, but Azmoun can't squeeze the ball past the onrushing Mohamedi, who then produces a follow up save from Jahanbakhsh to keep the game goalless. That would have been a late twist in the tale of the first half! 41' - From Iran's perspective, they are trying to pick and choose their moments to break on the counter, but are often being thwarted by poor first touches as well as some impressive defending from the Moroccan backline. 37' - Meanwhile... 35' - Alireza Jahanbakhsh fancies his chances with a free-kick 30 yards out and... smashes it well off target. 33' - Morocco have dominated the midfield battle for the majority of this game. The way they've played their football so far, I can see them winning over a lot of neutrals today. 30' -  Huge chance for Morocco! Amine Harit dances his way into the Iran penalty area and, with no one up in support, goes for goal himself. The 20-year-old tries to curl one towards the far post, but can't work with the tight angle as Beiranvand makes a comfortable save. 23'  - Everyone still can't get over that save from Beiranvand. 20' - Signs of life! A counter attack for Iran sees the game open up for the underdogs for the first time, but Fajr's delivery is poor and fails to find a teammate. 18' - How. On. Earth? Morocco's free-kick wreaks havoc in the box, but with the ball pinging around, neither Belhanda, nor Benatia can find a way through all the bodies in the penalty area to break the deadlock. Alireza Beiranvand made a great save somewhere in the mix as well. 16 ' - I don't mean to keep waxing lyrical about Morocco, but they are playing some of the nicest football we've seen so far this summer. Slick one-touch passing and patient possession play are rendering Iran's chances of making an impact null and void. All they need now is the cutting edge in the final third to reward them with a goal their opening gambit has deserved. 12' - One thing is for certain: the fans in attendance are enjoying every second of the occasion and making quite the racket! 9' - Herve Renard has to be happy with what he's seen from his side so far. Morocco are looking sharp, retaining possession well and threatening in the final third. For all their probing so far though, we're still yet to see the first clear-cut chance of the game. 5' - It's all Morocco in the early going. Hakim Ziyech whiffs at a cutback to the edge of the area before Younes Belhanda flashes a header off target. 2' - I said to keep your eyes on Harit and it's the Schalke star who gets the first shot of the game off. A scuffed volley from the edge of the area though, fails to cause Beiranvand any problems. KICK OFF! The ball is rolling in Saint Petersburg. Group B is officially underway. Can either Morocco or Iran give themselves a boost ahead of their Spain and Portugal double headers? Keep your eyes on Amine Harit. He could be the difference maker. 16:57 CET If Morocco or Iran are to cause an upset in Group B then they will have to get a result in their opener. Morocco are favorites to pick up a victory here and have an enterprising team on show. 16:49 CET Amine Harit was named the Bundesliga Rookie of the Year after a spectacular debut season with Schalke and is now set to take the stage in the 2018 World Cup. 16:45 CET - TEAM NEWS 16:40 CET Two games and six goals into the 2018 World Cup and the matches are coming thick and fast! Following a thrilling end to Uruguay's clash with Egypt, we now turn our attention to proceedings in Group B. Morocco and Iran get the ball rolling in Saint Petersburg with Portugal set to take on Spain later tonight.