Full-body swimsuits, known as "burkinis," can be helpful in integrating Muslim girls in German schools by allowing them to take part in swim classes, Franziska Giffey said on Sunday. "The most important thing is the well-being of the children and that incudes being able to swim," she said at an event on Sunday. The Social Democrat family minister, who was district mayor in the immigrant-heavy Berlin borough of Neukölln before switching to the federal level, said it was entirely justifiable for schools to not only allow the garment to be worn in class but to lend them to students who would otherwise not be allowed to participate. Read more: Study - German schools need more Islamic religion classes Fellow Cabinet member, conservative Agriculture Minister Julia Klöckner, disagreed, saying that the burkini — which covers the whole body apart from the hands, feet and face — cemented a "misogynistic understanding in a place where children and teenagers are supposed to learn the opposite." Conservative integration deputy minister for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), Serap Güler, concurred, saying it sent out "the wrong signal" and was a "misunderstanding of tolerance." School hands out burkinis The comments were triggered by the fact that a secondary school in the western town of Herne in NRW had been handing out burkinis for free to pupils whose parents would otherwise have taken them out of swim class. The 18th century saw the development of the first bathing outfits for ladies and whole-body suits for the gentlemen. People swam in bathing suits made of thick wool and cotton fabrics that soaked up lots of water and took an eternity to dry. Everything was strictly segregated according to gender - including swimming zones. When tourism started to take off in the early 20th century, swimming trips to the sea came into fashion. At the beginning of a season the sea was "opened." Swimsuits had by now become a little tighter, and elastic tricot came into play. Bathing caps, still resembling hats, were intended to protect people from the sun. Full-body swimsuits, as seen here in 1910, were designed for men and women. The Roaring Twenties finally catapulted swimwear into modernity: small belts, golden buttons and glittering sequins added a decidedly feminine touch to bathing fashion. During this period, swimsuits were tailored only in small fits - they were not available in plus sizes. Just four small triangles held together with thin strings, the world was shocked by the first bikini. On July 5, 1946, exotic dancer Micheline Bernardini appeared in front of cameras in a Parisian swimming pool in the skimpy piece of clothing. The suit was designed by French former-engineer Louis Réard, who probably had no idea he would change the way women bathed forever. In the 1950s in the US, Hollywood films featuring swimmers were very successful. The "Aquamaids" performed water ballet and gymnastics on water skis, as pictured in this photo. The top part of the bikini may seem as if it's in danger of flying off, while the skirt appears as if it won't go anywhere at 30 miles per hour. This is an early model of a sporty bikini style. Olympic swimmer Esther Williams caught the attention of Hollywood agents while performing in a water show. This enabled the athlete to earn an income, as she had not been able to participate in the Olympics in 1940 due to World War II. In "Neptune's Daughter," she starred as an attractive bathing beauty, and would eventually become one of the richest women in Hollywood. The famous curves of American movie star Marilyn Monroe were much accentuated by a bathing suit - that is, when she actually wore one, rather than merely a few drops of Chanel No. 5. Her first successes in front of a camera were in the 1940s when she worked as a model for the famous Pirelli calendar (photo), well before her career as an actress took off. The beauty contests of the 1950s were quite modest. What counted most for the jury were inner values: Divorced women were not allowed to take part, for example. The appearances of the candidates were discreetly emphasized by high-heeled shoes and form-fitting swimsuits. Miss Germany Petra Schürmann (seventh from left, first row) won this Miss World competition in 1956. After Pop Art exploded on the scene, abstract and geometric patterns started to infiltrate fashion ateliers, and became a defining style of the 1960s. One of the most outstanding fashion designers was Frenchman Andre Courrèges, who applied constructivist patterns to swimwear. In the 1960s, an absolute must for women such as Italian actress Gina Lollobrigida, pictured here with co-star Sean Connery, was creative bathing caps in a flowery style. Water repellent rubber caps were a necessary accessory in every beach bag - and men were even permitted to wear a sporty version of them. The American TV series "Baywatch" has written swimwear history. The swimsuits of the Baywatch girls were extremely high cut, and defined beachwear fashion the world over in the early 90s. The bright red fabric was reduced even further for actress Pamela Anderson and her notable curves. The cult series was broadcast in 144 countries. When Ursula Andress emerged from the ocean in a tight two-piece in 1962, movie-goers' jaws dropped. James Bond, played by Sean Connery, also had to stop for a peek during the film "Dr. No." The same happens to Pierce Brosnan as James Bond in "Die Another Day" 40 years later. In this film, Halle Berry emerges from the water in a similarly flattering suit. The big question posed by all swimwear designers: How much material is too much? The difference between a bikini and a swimsuit, which traditionally is a little bit more concealing, is difficult to define. A swimsuit in retro style is presented here at Fashion Week Miami for the 2011 bathing season. When it comes to innovative swimwear, Australia is the leader. This photo was taken on the beach in Australia. In Australia and New Zealand, many people prefer not to be exposed to the blazing sun, and both Muslims and non-Muslims protect their skin from aggressive rays. On the French Riviera, on the other hand, burkinis are not tolerated. The same is true at many bathing establishments in Germany. The burkini ban remains highly controversial. Author: Heike Mund, Silke Wünsch (sh) State government guidelines say that it is not a school's responsibility to provide special clothing or equipment of any kind and that there was no right to separate classes for boys and girls. Read more: Frenchman Ben Lecomte begins 'longest swim' across Pacific The school in Herne stresses, however, that there have been very few cases and that, in the past, it had bought other types of sports clothing and equipment to allow all children to take part in physical education classes. It says the purchase was funded through donations. Education key as swimming skills decline Giffey emphasized that schools' education mandate should be at the forefront and that the burkini issue should not be "blown out of proportion into the decline of the West," a phrase sometimes used in Germany by those who believe that Muslims and Islam are gaining too much influence in the country. Her appeal comes as the German Life Savers' Society (DLRG) — the biggest voluntary organization of its kind worldwide — warns that a quarter of German primary schools have no access to an indoor pool. In its annual report, it also says around 60 percent of 10-year-old's are not competent swimmers.