Deutsche Welle has obtained the certificate that Boris Becker's lawyer says confirms the former German tennis star was appointed by the Central African Republic (CAR) as an attache. Becker has claimed diplomatic immunity in an attempt to avoid bankruptcy proceedings against him. The document bears the signature of CAR's EU envoy, Daniel Emery Dede, who told DW last weekend that Becker had diplomatic status, owing to a diplomatic passport from the CAR for his role as attache for sports, culture and humanitarian affairs. The certificate detailing Boris Becker as CAR attache However, on Tuesday, CAR's Foreign Minister Charles Armel Doubane cast doubt over Becker's status by saying that the passport was a forgery , that the signature on it was not his, and that "the number belongs to a series that was stolen." Then, Cherubin Moroubama, a top diplomat in the CAR Foreign Ministry, told the AFP news agency that the job profile on Becker's supposed passport, "financial charge de mission," does not exist. However, the alleged proof of appointment provided by Becker's lawyer, Christian Oliver Moser, defines the 50-year-old's position as attache for sports, culture and humanitarian affairs, as well as finance. The serial number, date of issue and expiration date on the certificate are also identical to those in the passport. Boris Becker's alleged CAR passport, detailing his role as financial attache Mystery in Bangui As well as claiming Becker's passport was a fake, Doubane told DW that any diplomatic appointment must be made by the president with the CAR foreign minister's signature. "The president has never requested my signature to sign such a document for Boris Becker," Doubane asserted. "Does Mr Becker have the qualities required of a CAR diplomat? And secondly, does he have the papers to prove he is a CAR diplomat. If he does, he should show those papers," he added. The certificate of Becker's appointment only bears EU ambassador Dede's signature. Read more: Opinion: Mr. Becker, Boris and us However, Moser told DW that Becker was only in possession of the diplomatic passport for around two minutes before it was sent off to a consulate in Europe for a visa application. "We therefore have no way of checking the accuracy of the Foreign Minister's statements," Moser said. "We do not even know whether the document that was handed to us even bears the Foreign Minister's signature. Or maybe the president can make an appointment by decree. Why would the ambassador tell DW that Mr. Becker has a diplomatic passport if that wasn't the case?" Read more: Opinion: Boris Becker and the Germans - no happy end in sight This picture of Becker was removed from the website for the CAR's EU embassy Stolen passports? Both Doubane and Moroubama claim the number on Becker's supposed CAR passport matches one from a batch of new passports that were stolen back in 2014. According to DW's Eric Topona, the CAR administration was "pillaged" during the 2013-14 coup, leading to passports being sold "like bread rolls" on the black market. "These passports, which have been robbed from the CAR, are continuing to be sold," said Topona, adding that Becker could be a victim. Becker speaks Becker spoke about the issue for the first time on Tuesday, telling Top Magazine that "it is a fact that I am currently a diplomat for the Central African Republic." The former tennis player insisted that he had been handed the diplomatic passport by Dede in April. Until last week, Becker was also listed on the website of CAR's embassy in Brussels. It even included a picture of him sitting a desk with the country's flag. The image has since been taken down. Becker's legal issues After declaring bankruptcy in June 2017, Becker was taken to court in London over debt allegedly owed to private bankers Arbuthnot Latham since 2015. A year later, the three-time Wimbledon champion is still being pursued for "further assets." However, Moser revealed that Becker could no longer be prosecuted in London on account of his diplomatic immunity granted by his new position with CAR. Three days later, Dede supported Becker's claims to DW. Former United Nations special rapporteur Ben Emmerson, whose former high profile clients include WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, is handling Becker's case. On July 7, 1985 a 17-year-old, unseeded Boris Becker became an overnight star, defeating Kevin Curren to win the men's final at Wimbledon. He remains the youngest player to win at Wimbledon. He went on to defend his title in 1986, beating Ivan Lendl in the final, before winning it for a third time in 1989 when he overcame Stefan Edberg. Before Boris Becker came along, Germany had never won the Davis Cup, This changed in 1988 when Becker and Carl-Uwe Steeb won their doubles match over then-world No. 1 Mats Wilander and reigning Wimbledon champion Stefan Edberg. Becker was also part of the German teams that won the Davis Cup in 1989 and 1993. In 1990, Becker was named German male athlete of the year for a fourth time. His high-pressure and flexible game was best suited to fast surfaces particularly indoors and on grass. His was a serve-and-volley player and the fans loved him for his specialty, an acrobatic diving volley. Becker got off to a perfect start in the 1991 season, winning the Australian Open and reaching the top of the men's singles rankings for the first time. The German won a total of 49 singles titles in his career, including six Grand Slams. The French Open, however, eluded him. At the Barcelona Summer Olympics in 1992, both Becker and his German rival Michael Stich (above, left) were eliminated early from the men's singles. However, they combined to win gold in the men's doubles. "We didn't really talk to each other at all between the rallies," Becker would later say. "We really didn't like each other." In late 1993 Becker married German-American actress and designer Barbara Feltus. Six years later, she and the rest of the world learned of his broom-closet affair with Russian model Angela Ermakova. The affair produced Becker's third child and led to his 2001 divorce from Barbara. Boris Becker's last match as a professional tennis player was his defeat to Australia's Patrick Rafter in the round of 16 at Wimbledon in 1999. Becker's career took a high physical toll on him. He has been quoted as saying that "I have two new hips and a 10-centimeter-long (six inches) metal plate in my right ankle, and I have a slight limp." In 2002, Becker was convicted of evading €1.7 million ($1.9 million) in tax and handed a two-year suspended sentence. The judge had found that although Becker, like many other wealthy celebrities, officially resided in Monaco between 1991 and 1993, he actually spent the bulk of his time in Munich. In 2007, Becker found himself back in court as the owner of 60 percent of the shares in a company called Sportgate, which had gone bankrupt several years earlier. This time he got off easy, with the judges ordering him to pay just €114,000, far less than creditors had originally demanded. In 2009, Becker married again, making Sharlely Kerssenberg of the Netherlands his second wife. She is the mother of his fourth child, Amadeus Benedict Edley Luis. They split their time between London and Zurich. At the end of 2013 most were surprised by the news that Boris Becker had just become Novak Djokovic's new coach. The Serbian, who at the time was the world No. 2, hired Becker in the hope that he could be of particular help with the mental side of his game. Under his German coach, Djokovic went on to return to the No. 1 spot in 2014. Djokovic and Becker formed a successful partnership, with the Serbian winning six Grand Slam titles under the German's tutelage. It all fall apart in late 2016 though. Becker pointed to a lack of intensity in training as the reason for Djokovic's dip in form. It has also been said that he didn't feel comfortable with the influence on the Serbian of a Spanish spiritual guru. On June 21, 2017, a London court declared Boris Becker bankrupt after a private bank went to court over a "substantial" sum he owed them. The registrar found that there was a lack of credible evidence the amount would be paid anytime soon. Becker has rejected the notion, telling the newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung that he was "neither insolvent, nor bankrupt." All through his ups and downs, Boris Becker has remained the face of men's tennis in Germany. In August 2017, the German tennis federation (DTB) has named him to the newly created post of "head of tennis." In his new role, he is to manage all German men's tennis and oversee the running of the country's Davis Cup team. Barbara Rittner was given a similar role for the women. Becker, seen here at the 2017 ATP Finals in London, refused to answer when asked by a reporter to say how he planned to celebrate his 50th birthday. "This is a private matter that I will not comment on," he said. In a German television documentary, Becker seemed satisfied with his lot in life. "When I look back at my life... I think, then I have gotten more things right than wrong," he said. Author: Chuck Penfold