A 13-year-old boy and three other people are in a critical condition after a shooting at an all night festival in the US city of Trenton, New Jersey. The four are among 20 people injured in the shooting, which left one suspect dead early on Sunday morning. Two suspects opened fire at the Art All Night festival at 2:45 a.m. local time (0745 UTC) forcing partygoers to flee the scene, said Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri. One of the suspects, a 33-year-old man, was killed. Another suspect is in custody. Read more: Florida school shooting survivors launch US-wide gun-reform tour Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y9ae Authorities say that about 1,000 people were at the festival, which showcases local art, music, food and movies, when the shooting started. The news site NJ.com cited Onofri as describing a chaotic and confusing scene, as police were swamped with 911 calls reporting a shooting inside the venue. Read more: Donald Trump tells NRA he'll protect US gun rights Trenton resident Angelo Nicolo told Philadelphia 6ABC-TV that he and his brother were at the event when they heard loud popping sounds. "Next thing you know, we turn around and everybody's running down the street. All hell broke loose," he said. "I saw two police officers escort a guy that got shot in the leg. They bandaged him up and whisked him away," Nicolo added. 6ABC-TV cited local officials as saying that the incident was an officer-involved shooting. Read more: Las Vegas police release 1,200 pages of documents on last year's mass shooting Local TV stations showed numerous police vehicles at the scene. Newspaper The Trentonian said that the venue for the festival was strewn with broken glass and other debris. The event began Saturday afternoon and was scheduled to conclude Sunday afternoon. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yrbp Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.