Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, has extended his lead in the latest opinion polls to nearly 17 points ahead of his nearest rival, three weeks before the presidential election on July 1.  During his campaign, he has spoken of plans to work on a deal with US President Donald Trump similar to the "Alliance for Progress" launched in 1961 by former President John F. Kennedy, which would tackle the thorny issue of migration to the north. "Our dream, which we'll achieve regardless of whether Trump accepts or not, is that Mexicans can work and be happy where they were born," Lopez Obrador said during a rally on Sunday. AMLO is the candidate for Juntos Haremos Historia, (Together We Will Make History), a coalition between the left-wing Labor Party, right-wing Social Encounter Party and National Regeneration Movement (MORENA), which he also founded in 2014. AMLO is proposing a program of increased financial aid for students and the elderly, amnesty for some drug criminals, better access to education, possible return to state involvement in the energy sector, agricultural development and the cancellation of a new international airport project in the capital, Mexico City. Lopez Obrador has also said Mexico should do more to solve its own problems, including fighting corruption and violent crime. From left: Jaime Rodriguez, Ricardo Anaya, Jose Antonio Meade and Lopez Obrador Running for the third time, the 64-year-old AMLO has registered 37 percent support, up from 32 percent in May, according to a poll published Sunday by polling firm Consulta Mitofsky. Ricardo Anaya of the center-right National Action Party (PAN), who is fronting a right-left coalition, saw his support fall back slightly from 20.5 percent to 20.3 percent. Jose Antonio Meade, candidate for the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), saw his share rise three points to 17 percent. A deadly campaign Mexico's election campaign has been the most violent in decades. On Friday, a congressional candidate for the ruling PRI, Fernando Puron, was shot in the back of the head as he spoke to supporters in the border city of Piedras Negras. His death brought the number of candidates, politicians or office holders killed since campaigning began last September to 112. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vX3h Lopez Obrador, who is well-versed in Mexican history, has responded to voter concerns over another major issue: endemic corruption. He has said his focus will be on preventing graft in the future, rather than targeting members of the outgoing administration of President Enrique Pena Nieto and his PRI party. Lopez Obrador's attitude toward corruption appears to have gathered some dissatisfied ruling party members to his side, and may give him a majority in Congress as well. On Monday, The New York Times suggested the government had enough evidence to charge officials accused of links to the Odebrecht corruption scandal, but said it had not brought charges as they might hurt the PRI ahead of the elections. Odebrecht is the Brazilian construction giant at the center of region-wide political scandals. Local, state and congressional votes In addition to the presidential and congressional votes, elections are being held at nearly all levels of administration throughout Mexico down to the municipalities, where corruption remains the main theme. The youngest candidate standing in the July elections, 18-year-old Paola Gonzalez who is part of AMLO's alliance, has been criticized for her lack of political experience. She agreed, saying however: "I don't have experience in stealing and corruption." In a migrant shelter in the southern Mexican city of Tenosique, near the Guatemalan border, a refugee from Honduras says he originally planned to move to the United States with his family. Trump's election has changed everything. "I wanted to go to the United States with my family, but we've seen that the new government there has made things harder." Concepcion Bautista from Guatemala cradles her newborn son in the same migrant shelter. She says she plans to head for the United States, but will linger in Mexico to see how US President Donald Trump's immigration policies play out. Her goal is to reunite with her family up north ..... …but for the time being, she believes applying for asylum in Mexico is a smarter move. Mexican asylum data and testimony from migrants in Tenosique suggest that although fewer Central Americans are trying to enter the US, plenty are still fleeing their poor, violent home countries, with many deciding to stay longer in Mexico, which has traditionally been a transit country. The Trump administration has pointed out a sharp decline in immigrant detentions in the first few months of this year as a vindication for the president's tough immigration policies. The measures are already having another effect. In California, where farmers usually rely on workers from Mexico to bring in the harvest, many Mexicans are staying away, preferring to find work in their own country. Migrants from Central America play football in the migrant shelter in Tenosique. The number of people applying for asylum in Mexico has soared by more than 150 percent since Trump was elected president. These days, Mexican immigrants would rather set up in Canada than the United States. One man from Guatemala says the prices charged by people smugglers have risen sharply since Trump took office, now hovering around $10,000 (9,100 euros), up from about $6,000 a few years ago. Migrants sit below a mural in Mexico with the words: "Our demand is minimal: justice." With Mexico's immigration authorities controlling migration more assiduously, Central Americans were forced to take more isolated, dangerous routes where the chances of being mugged were higher. "We've gone north several times, but every time it's got harder," says one man, who was deported from the United States in December. "Now, it's better if we travel alone, along new routes." Author: Nadine Berghausen jm/cmk (Reuters, EFE) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 