The list of reasons for Germany's defeat to Mexico in Moscow on Sunday was long. Poor positional play, a passive midfield, and an unimaginative use of possession left Germany there for the taking.  Mexico took their chance, but there was more to this team than a match plan reportedly months in the making. A deafening display from Mexico fans in the Luzhniki Stadium played its part in contributing to one of Germany's worst performances in ages. What started in the center of Moscow as a field of green grew in sound and stature until wave after wave of goose bump-inducing support drowned the world champions. Every time Joachim Löw's men tried to use the ball in their usual, tidy fashion, they were met with a chorus of whistles. Every time Germany's fans dared to cheer, they were drowned out by an ocean of raucous green. By the time Hirving Lozano tucked inside Germany's defense to score, pockets of bouncing green dotted around the stadium burst into joy. Mexico's fans delivered a symphony of football  steadfast belief, angst and then unabated joy as the defending champions felt what it was to be the hunted team. Sea of green Germany's fans were largely silent once they realized their team looked spectacularly short of the required quality. Many left the stadium somewhat dazed, disbelieving that this so-called tournament team had dragged their poor form into the World Cup and sank under the pressure of a sea of green. Comparisons with Mexico's ringing set of supporters would be unfair though, particular given that only since 2006 have Germany fans felt more comfortable in showing their team colors. Nevertheless, Germany's traveling fans weren't there right when their team needed them the most. Even a Mexican-sized support base wouldn't have helped Germany overcome their issues in Moscow, though. This was a stale performance from Löw's side, the kind that sparked Germany's football revolution in the first place. Even Löw himself was guilty of seemingly poor in-game management. Marco Reus came to the fray too late, and the ineffective midfield wasn't really ever dealt with. To suggest Leroy Sane would have made a difference is also remiss. Germany were blunt everywhere, but no more so than at their base. Short on luck and ability The shine has suddenly gone from this group, and perhaps most worryingly frustration is creeping in. After the game, Mats Hummels told ZDF: "If seven or eight players attack, then it's clear the offensive force is greater than the defensive stability. That's what I often talk about internally, to no affect. Our cover wasn't good, too often it was just Jerome [Boateng] and I at the back." Top-level performances have been few and far between over the last two tournaments, with the historic win over Brazil perhaps hiding some fortune displays. Against Mexico, Germany were short on luck and ability. As questions arise about Germany, attention shouldn't be turned away from Mexico. "El Tri" won't win it all, but they won the day. As fans streamed out of the Luzhniki, some Mexican supporters were crying, others were pointing to the heavens in thanks, most were singing proudly. One Germany fan found himself caught in the middle of a sea of joyous green, and simply turned to one Mexico fan and said: "Well done, you deserved to beat us today." And no one could disagree. Will Germany's best goalkeeper be fit enough to play? Even though Neuer missed most of the season with injury issues, Joachim Löw has brought his captain along in the hope that he recovers.   International games: 74 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The Barcelona goalkeeper has been Löw's go-to option with Neuer on the shelf. With Germany's captain back in the fold, ter Stegen may have to make do with the bench, but he could also start while Neuer works on his fitness.   International games: 19 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Trapp is the main beneficiary of Neuer's failure to recover. He had an underwhelming season, making just 12 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain and some high profile errors, but he's made the cut, for now.   International games: 3 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Bayern Munich man is arguably Germany's best defender, and one of the first names on Löw's teamsheet. But Boateng picked up a thigh injury against Real Madrid in March, casting doubt on whether he will be fit in time for the World Cup. International games: 70 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 2 Boateng's central defensive partner at club and international level is one of Löw's key men. The question is not whether he is going to start at the World Cup, but who will be starting alongside him.  International games: 63 / Goals: 5 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The Chelsea defender evidently has Löw's trust, as proven by his regular playing time during World Cup qualifiers. He will likely be the primary backup to Boateng and Hummels.   International games: 23 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 He had a strong first season at Bayern and has experience playing with both Hummels and Boateng. The 22-year-old is now poised to make his first World Cup squad.   International games: 9 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 His transfer from Borussia Dortmund to Borussia Mönchengladbach hasn't done Ginter's international chances any harm. The utility man was the youngest squad member of the 2014 team, but didn't play a minute at the tournament. He'll be hoping for more this time, but may also struggle to make the final 23.   International games: 17 / Goals: 0 / World Cup appearances: 1 The Bayern defender has not only become Germany's best right back, but one of the best right backs in the world. Löw will need him at his best at the World Cup.   International games: 27 / Goals: 3 / World Cup appearances: 0 He will be playing in the second division next season after Cologne were relegated from the Bundesliga. Before then, Hector is likely to make his World Cup debut as Löw's starting left back.   International Games: 36 / Goals: 3 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Despite making his international debut at the Confederations Cup last year, the Hertha Berlin man finds himself with a decent chance of travelling to Russia. A set piece specialist, the 26-year-old will be backup for Hector.   International Games: 6 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 A metronomic presence, Kroos is expected to run the show in midfield for the defending champions. The Real Madrid midfielder has been an automatic selection for Germany for some time, and could enter the tournament with another Champions League title under his belt.   International games: 82 / Goals: 12 / World Cup appearances: 2 At 31, the Juventus midfielder may no longer be at the height of his powers. But his leadership is what Löw covets most and his commanding presence on the field will, almost certainly, earn him a starting spot.   International games: 73 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 2 He missed out on the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and the 2016 European Championship in France. After starting every game at the 2017 Confederations Cup, Rudy is trying to convince Löw to finally bring him to a major tournament.   International games: 24 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Manchester City midfielder is finally fit after missing Germany's last two major tournaments with various injuries. He is another deep-lying playmaker who can make things happen in midfield.  International games: 24 / Goals: 4 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Arsenal midfielder is one of the best playmakers in the world, but has often drawn criticism for a perceived propensity to disappear at the crucial moments. Despite the political furor earlier in the week, he will be one of Löw's primary options in Russia.   International games: 89 / Goals: 22 / World Cup tournaments: 2 "Müller always plays," former Bayern coach Louis Van Gaal once said. He is not a forward in the conventional sense, but he always seems to find a way to score goals. He has World Cup pedigree too - he won the Golden Boot in 2010 and the Silver Boot in 2014.   International games: 90 / Tore: 38 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The 29-year-old finally seems set to make his World Cup debut. He just has to get through a training camp in South Tyrol without injuring himself...   International goals: 29 / Goals: 9 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Another Löw favorite, Draxler captained Germany at the Confederations Cup last year. After not getting the playing time he craved at Paris Saint-Germain this term, Draxler is looking to seize his opportunity at international level.   International games: 42 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The soon-to-be Bayern midfielder followed up his impressive Confederations Cup showing with a strong season for Schalke. However, he's likely to be back on the bench with Germany's stars back in the fold.   International games: 14 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The 22-year-old winger took on more responsibility at Leverkusen this season. Now he's aiming to cement his place in Löw's squad for years to come.   International games: 14 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Leipzig forward is small, quick and explosive — unlike most of Germany's other striking options. The 22-year-old is likely Löw's first choice up front after winning the Golden Boot at last year's Confederations Cup.   International games: 12 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Stuttgart forward has fallen down the pecking order since his terrific performance at Euro 2016. Even at 32, he is still one of Germany's most prolific goal scorers, but he has to be in tip-top shape in order to convince Löw to take him to Russia.   International games: 73 / Goals: 31 / World Cup tournaments: 1 Author: Davis VanOpdorp