The US Supreme Court ruled 5-4 on Tuesday to allow President Donald Trump to keep his travel ban against people from five countries, all of which have a majority Muslim population. The conservative majority on the court agreed that the "Muslim ban,"as it has been called, does not violate US immigration law. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote in the court's opinion that the president had "set forth a sufficient national security justification" to stop many people from travelling to the US from Somalia, Iran, Yemen, Syria and Libya. He added, however, that the court had "no view on the soundness of the policy." Sotomayor: Travel ban hurts US citizens In a dissenting opinion, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the ruling "leaves undisturbed a policy first advertised openly and unequivocally as a 'total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States' because the policy now masquerades behind a façade of national-security concerns." She added that any "teasonable observer would conclude that the Proclamation was motivated by anti-Muslim animus." She also accused her five colleagues who voted to uphold the ban of  "ignoring the facts, misconstruing our legal precedent, and turning a blind eye to the pain and suffering the Proclamation inflicts upon countless families and individuals, many of whom are United States citizens." Trump's "Muslim ban" has gone through several iterations and been struck down by several lower courts before its final version emerged in September 2017, banning entry for most people from the five aforementioned nations into the United States. It has been decried by detractors as a blantantly Islamophobic move from President Trump, and critics have also highlighted that no one who has committed acts of terror in the United States has come from any of those five countries. A ruling by the court to hear the case has left the law largely in effect since December. The decision marks what can be seen as the first major policy victory for President Trump since taking office in January 2017. es/ (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)