Germany's conservatives have announced a delay to their new "migration master plan." The precise reason for the delay was not clear, with the Interior Ministry merely saying late Monday that some issues still needed to be agreed. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer was expected to present a 63-point plan on migration and asylum rules on Tuesday to other parties, but seemingly couldn't get the green light from Chancellor Angela Merkel. According to a report in Germany's mass-circulation daily Bild, the pair disagreed over whether or not to send people away at Germany's border if they had already been refused asylum, or had applied for asylum, elsewhere in the EU. "I have a responsibility for this country, namely to steer and maintain order. And I can not postpone it until hell freezes over," Seehofer said. Reacting to the dispute between the conservatives, the Social Democrats (SPD) — the third constituent in the ruling coalition — said they were coming up with their own plan to deal with migration and asylum procedures. "Those who want concrete proposals on asylum cannot rely on Seehofer and the CSU (Christian Social Union). That's why the SPD is now developing its own migration concept," said deputy SPD party leader Ralf Stegner. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vETN Asylum procedures under scrutiny Seehofer has been critical of Merkel's refugee and immigration policies that have allowed over 1 million asylum seekers into the country since 2015. Merkel's liberal policies were largely blamed for the poor show by the conservatives in last year's general election, and the resulting rise of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD). Now, after taking control of the Interior Ministry, Seehofer is making efforts to push the government to the right and regain the ground lost to the AfD. His CSU party is facing a stiff challenge from the AfD in a regional election in Bavaria in October. Seehofer's migration plan lays out stricter immigration rules and faster deportation of failed asylum seekers. Germany's existing asylum and migration procedures are back in the spotlight after the rape and murder of a 14-year old German girl, allegedly by an Iraqi refugee, in Wiesbaden last month. ap/cmk (AFP, Reuters, dpa, KNA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. On April 20, 2018, a number of employees at the regional BAMF office in Bremen were accused of having illegally accepted hundreds of asylum applicants between 2013 and 2017, mainly from Iraq's Yazidi community. Bremen public prosecutors announced that six people, including the former director of the Bremen BAMF office, were under investigation for alleged corruption in about 1,200 cases. Steffen Seibert, spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, reacted swiftly to the allegations, saying it would be wrong to speculate on what consequences the incident could have for the BAMF immigration offices. He said that the "extremely serious allegations" would first have to be resolved. The BAMF scandal could be a major embarrassment to Chancellor Merkel's open-door policy to refugees. A few weeks into the scandal, German media reported that 13 further regional BAMF branches were going to be subject to checks regarding their approval of asylum applications. The branches had apparently come under scrutiny for showing noticeable differences in the number of asylum applications accepted or rejected in comparison to other offices. Some 8,000 applications will have to be re-checked. A month into the scandal, details emerged that BAMF had been informed about the possible improprieties in Bremen earlier than thought, German news magazine Der Spiegel reported. The irregularities were reportedly flagged back in February 2017. In the light of the growing scandal, BAMF head Jutta Cordt announced that some 18,000 asylum decisions made in Bremen since 2000 now had to be re-checked. German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer meanwhile confirmed that he would testify before a special meeting of the Bundestag internal affairs committee to be convened at the request of the Green Party. The committee hopes to avoid a full-blown parliamentary investigation, which two other opposition parties — the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) and the center-right FDP — are calling for. This might be the man who would have to answer some serious questions if a comprehensive parliamentary inquiry should be launched. Thomas de Maiziere was Germany's interior minister until the beginning of the year, overseeing the management of asylum application at the height of the refugee crisis. De Maiziere, an ally of Merkel's, criticized the shortcomings of the assessment system in the past. On May 23, the German Interior Ministry prohibited the regional BAMF office in Bremen from deciding whether individual refugees will be given asylum in the country. Seehofer said an internal BAMF report had shown that "legal regulations and internal policies" had been "disregarded" at the center. The city of Bremen has said Germany's Federal Criminal Police are now part of the inquiry into the wide-ranging corruption. The decision came after a crisis meeting on the scandal surrounding the city's asylum procedure for refugees. Author: Sertan Sanderson