+++Refresh the page for live updates (all times in CEST)+++ England 1-1 Tunisia — Group G (Kane 11' — Sassi pen. 35') 64' — Harry Kane passes to Raheem Sterling on the left wing. He leaves the ball for Ashley Young, but Dylan Bronn steps in for the interception. Young fouls Bronn trying to win the ball back to end the chance. 57' — Jordan Henderson takes the ball near the goal line and crosses from the right, but the ball sails past Jessie Lingard at the far post. 52' — Kieran Trippier find Dele Alli's head on a corner, but Alli's long-range header sales over the crossbar. 46' Second half 20:50 — Some halftime statistics... 45+3' Halftime 45+1' — Three minutes added onto the first half, presumably for the break in play that resulted from Mouez Hassen's injury. 45' — Jessie Lingard is played into the penalty area. He fires a shot around an oncoming Mustafa, but his shot hits the outside of the right post. 43' — Kieran Trippier's free kick is headed on by Jordan Henderson. Kyle Walker collects it and passes it back to Jessie Lingard. Lingard fires a shot on the half-volley, and it is blocked over the bar for a corner. Naim Sliti clears the ensuing corner only as far as Trippier, but Mustafa saves Trippier's cross. 40' — Major chance for England. Dele Alli's header is cleared from the goal line by Syam Ben Youssef. Raheem Sterling collected the rebound and passed it back to John Stones, but Jones mishits his shot from just outside the six-yard box. 35' EQUALIZER — Ferjani Sassi fires the penalty just past the fingers of Jordan Pickford to level the score. England 1, Tunisia 1 33' Penalty — Fakhreddine Ben Youssef is elbowed by Kyle Walker in the penalty area and the referee points to the spot. Ferjani Sassi is taking the penalty. Walker received a yellow card after the incident. 27' — Wahbi Khazri steals the ball away from Harry Maguire and dribbles into the middle. He dribbles into the middle and leaves the ball for Ferjani Sassi. Sassi shoots from distance, his shot is deflected and falls wide left. 24' — Ashley Young puts in an in-swinging cross from the left flank, but Jessie Lingard's volley at the far post hits the side netting. England have seven shots already in the match. 23' — Dylan Bronn breaks down the right and tries to cross, but Dele Alli hits the cross out for a corner. Wahbri Khazri's ensuing corner is too high for anyone to reach. 18' — Kieran Trippier crosses from the right but the ball is cleared by Yassine Meriah. Jordan Henderson jumps on the clearance and fires from distance, but Mustafa makes the save. 15' Tunisia substitution: Farouk Ben Mustafa replaces Mouez Hassen as Tunisia's goalkeeper. Hassen appears to have injured his left arm and is not able to continue. 11' GOAL — John stones attacks a corner which Mouez Hassen saves. Harry Kane volleys in the rebound to open the scoring. England 1, Tunisia 0 10' — Harry Kane combines with Raheem Sterling before shooting from outside the penalty area. 5' — Dele Alli plays Jessie Lingard in on the left, and Lingard crosses a ball towards the back post. Raheem Sterling receives it at the far post, but he couldn't sort his feet out and hits the ball clumsily over the goal line. The goal wouldn't have counted anyways as Lingard was called for offside. 3' — Early chance for England. Dele Alli receives a ball over the top from Jordan Henderson. He crosses the ball towards Raheem sterling, but the ball is cleared away. Alli steals the ball away again and crosses once more, and Jessie Lingard is denied a goal by Mouez Hassen. 1' Kickoff 19:56 — Harry Kane is wearing the captain's armband tonight for England. At 24, he's the youngest English international to captain the Three Loins at a World Cup. 19:54 — Players on the field as the teams get set for the national anthems. 19:21 — Here are the lineups for this evening's game... 19:19 — Engand begin their World Cup campaign in Volgorad Arena against Tunisia. The Three Lions are facing less pressure than in past World Cups, but many expect them to handle Tunisia, who are participating in their first World Cup since 2006.