As Sivagnanam Chandrasekaran sat sipping chai at a small roadside tea stand in southern India, he noticed something unusual: honey bees hovering en masse around discarded paper cups. That might not strike the untrained eye as strange bee behavior. But for Chandrasekaran, a professor of plant biology at Madurai Kamaraj University, it posed some questions: Why were the insects not off flitting from flower to flower instead? Was this an anomaly, or part of a bigger picture? And could this be yet another factor in the important pollinator's decline? He couldn't find an answer in the existing literature. So the professor and his students set about researching bee foraging in six locations across the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu to figure out what was going on. They found that a considerable population of honeybees visiting these "cup flowers" never returned to their hives. The insects were drowning in the sugary residue of tea, coffee, juices and soft drinks that had attracted them as an alternative food source. Over 30 days, they recorded an alarming 25,211 dead bees in cups at vendor stalls. "Every cup had dead bees, varying from five to 50. This was found across locations where this study happened," said Chandrasekaran, leader author on the paper Disposed paper cups and declining bees. In India, in order to beat waste, some local administrations are encouraging vendors to offer glass and clay tea cups instead of plastic and paper Flowers versus cups In his research, Chandrasekaran observed that bees will go for the "healthy" choice when presented with the option of flowers or processed sugars. The problem arises when natural flowering habitats shrink and paper cups bloom alongside proliferating beverage stands in growing urban areas. "After two to three stalls were set up in the same area, if 200 to 300 cups were dumped a day over two to three months, honeybees recognize that as a forage site," said the scientist. The researchers established that a critical mass of sugary cups dumped in an open trash can as a criteria for bee attraction. A growing awareness of the environmental impact of plastic had prompted a switch to paper cups among vendors over the past few years. Ironically, says Chandrasekaran, this might actually be contributing to bee deaths. Read: With bees on the brink, World Bee Day seeks to raise awareness Dammer bees are also victims of paper teacups, according to a second study The scientist did not observe any bee mortality in plastic cups during his study. "In paper cups, there is porous substance where sugar stays. This is not present in plastic," said Chandrasekaran. In plastic, the sugary residue hardens instead, he added — although there are no further studies examining the issue. Following this study, Sambandam Sandilyan of the Indian government's National Biodiversity Authority delved into the impact of paper cups on the stingless dammar bee.  Forest dwellers in the country's Nilgiri Biosphere reserve rely on the insect's honey and wax to make a living. In one case, Sandilyan observed more than 800 such bees died in a single trash can filled with disposable cups over the course of eight hours. "If in one tea stall so many bees die, imagine the number of bees we are losing across India. It is alarming. This is a slow cause of death for bees," said the researcher. Disappearing pollinators Beyond direct benefits of honey and wax, the deaths are cause for concern because wild and domestic honeybees are responsible for about 80 percent of pollination globally. This includes for 70 of the top 100 food crops, which provide about 90 percent of the world's nutrition. Read more: Supply chains at risk as pollinators die out "We need to engage in a longer study because if the bee population falls, it will affect forest and agriculture productivity, and pollination in the long run," said Sandilyan, who alongside Chandrasekaran has published published one of the only two studies on the impact of cups and bees. The European Union's food safety watchdog has confirmed that pesticides harm bee populations. Several studies have shown that neonicotinoids affect the brains and bodies of bees and other insects, changing their behavior and reducing their fertility and lifespan. Bees aren't just producers of delicious honey. As pollinators, they play a crucial role in the world's agricultural systems – allowing us to produce all kinds of other foods. But they're threatened by habitat-loss and exposure to toxic pesticides. Use of neonicotinoids, some of the most toxic pesticides to bees and other insects, was restricted by the EU in 2013. But now scientists say they have found a solution that will pave the way to a bee-friendly neonicotinoid pesticide. Researchers say they have identified the way that bees fight off harmful toxins. Comparing the effects of two neonicotinoids, they found bees metabolize one of them, thiacloprid, very efficiently. They believe this will help them to develop pesticides that do not harm bee populations. But environmentalists are skeptical. Dave Goulson of the school of life sciences at Sussex University, told DW his research, which looked at bee nests next to raspberry crops, found that thiacloprid harmed the nests. "There is evidence that thiacloprid use does harm bumblebee nests under field conditions," he said. Campaigners like Keith Tyrell, director of Pesticide Action Network UK says we need to move away from a "chemical mindset" altogether. It’s not just bees that are affected by pesticides, Tyrell says. Insecticides are harmful to many different types of insects. For example, butterfly populations have also been affected. Pesticides can also have an impact on human health and harm other wildlife and the environment, according to Pesticide Action Network UK. We need to find a way to change our agricultural model, and switch to non-chemical pest control methods that work with nature, environmentalists say. Author: Abby Young-Powell Still, if the trend continues, worker bees in entire colonies could be "wiped out," believes Sandilyan. While exact data on the country's bee population isn't available, scientists and beekeepers are observing sharp declines in bee numbers locally. This dovetails with the worldwide trend of "colony collapse disorder," where the majority of worker bees in a colony disappear, leaving behind the queen and a few nurse bees. Researchers blame CCD on several factors, including pesticides, loss of habitat, climate change, disease — and increased urbanization. Seeing red Entomologist Poornima Viswanathan thinks the problem extends beyond paper cups — she's seen bees trapped and dying in glass cases filled with fruit on street stalls. But she also believes the country can find solutions. "Here, we find that there may be other related causes of concern for bees in human-dominated locations," said Viswanathan. Viswanathan says she's also seen the insects trapped at fruit stands, for instance "If only we take simple measures to allow the bees to lead normal lives with normal bee behaviors, it will be a win-win scenario for both the ecosystem and us." Using airtight trash cans that bees cannot access could be a specific measure, says Sandilyan. Beyond this, educating and encouraging people to get their refreshments in reusable cups could be an option. Many people, like Maruvar Kuzhali — a consultant at an Indian company — say they are unaware of the issue. "Now that I know, I will not use paper cups, unless it is an unavoidable situation," said Kuzhali, who frequents roadside tea stands. Some local administrations have banned the paper variety and are encouraging the use of glass, steel or clay vessels to avoid waste, which will also have benefits for bees. Still, Chandrasekaran is against a blanket ban on paper cups. A simple cosmetic change could help: Bees have no photoreceptor for red and cannot see the color clearly. It's something he's currently researching. "If you notice, bright red colours are frequented by birds, and not bees," said the botanist. So something as simple as red paper cups could help save Tamil Nadu's honeybees. Gallery: In South Africa, bees have a very special job Robin Cook and his team are hanging hives in marula trees in South Africa's Kruger National Park to protect them. The tree's main enemy is ... ...the elephant. To reach the leaves, elephants tend to turn the trees over. Since the number of elephants has increased due to good conservation measures in South Africa, the trees are in trouble. However, if elephants hear bees buzzing, they do their best to get away quickly. Like humans, they are afraid of a bee's sting. If an elephant fells a tree, the repercussions extend beyond the tree itself. The marulas are also a precious habitat ... ...for him and many others. Vultures aren't the only animals to benefit from the tree, giraffes and rhinoceroses like to hang out around the marulas too. Robin Cook and Ronnie Makukule are currently monitoring 50 beehives in the South African bush. For more than a year, the two conservationists have tested how bees can be used as elephant-friendly tree protection. Cook's bee project is a new approach to park management. In the past, surplus elephants were simply shot to keep their population stable and protect the trees. The bee project even has another positive effect. Because residents in the areas can sell the honey from the hives, the buzzing multitaskers create additional income for local communities. Author: Stefan Möhl