Observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's (OSCE) concluded on Monday that opposition parties were denied equal conditions for campaigning in Turkey's election race. Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, celebrated victory as his main rival accepted the official results of Sunday's election despite complaints over how the campaign was conducted. The vote was the first held under a new system which gives the president expansive powers. What the OSCE said: International leaders weigh in: German government spokesman Steffan Seibert. said, "We would assume that the working relationship between the two governments…will continue to be constructive and fruitful." Sweden's left-wing foreign minister, Margot Wallstrom, said Turkey's democracy has to improve its shortcomings but Erdogan should be given the chance to do so. Johan Gudenus, from Austria's right-wing Freedom Party, said the expatriate Turks who helped re-elect Erdogan "are clearly better off in Turkey than in Austria." Russian President Vladimir Putin praised Erdogan's "great political authority." The two leaders later had a phone conversation about improving bilateral ties. Read more: Turkey's Erdogan claims victory in presidential and parliamentary elections Moscow has warned Russians against visiting Turkey, saying the threat of terrorism there was no less than in Egypt, where a bomb attack brought down a Russian passenger plane last month. Each year millions of Russian tourists spend their holidays in Turkey's seaside resorts. Some of them like the Kremlin Palace Hotel in Antalya are tailor-made for Russian guests. Turkish food exports so far have not been affected by Moscow's ban on most Western food imports. In 2014, about 4 percent of Turkish exports, mainly textiles and food, worth $6 billion (5.63 billion euros) went to Russia. In the first three quarters of 2015, however, overall exports to Russia slumped by 40 percent to $2.7 billion (2.53 euros) Turkey is the second-largest buyer of Russian natural gas after Germany. Ankara is importing 28-30 billion cubic meters (bcm) of its 50 bcm of natural gas needs annually from gas giant Gazprom. Russia also supplies oil and oil products to Turkey. Turkey together with Egypt is the largest buyer of Russian wheat. It bought 4.1 million tons of Russian wheat in the previous marketing year that ended in June. In addition, Ankara relies strongly on imports of Russian steel and semi-finished metallurgical products. Turkey commissioned Russia's state-owned Rosatom in 2013 to build four 1,200-megawatt nuclear reactors in a project worth $20 billion (18.79 billion euros). Russia and Turkey also have teamed up for the TurkStream pipeline Project, an alternative to Russia's South Stream pipeline to transport gas to Europe without crossing Ukraine. tko/hg (Reuters) Trouble in Turkey: The losing opposition candidate, Muharrem Ince of the Republican People's Party (CHP), had earlier complained that Turkish state broadcaster TRT ignored him during the election race. "You didn't broadcast my three major rallies," Ince told TNT reporters attending a news briefing to "please just leave." Erdogan's triumph: According to results published by Turkey's state news agency Anadolu, Erdogan's People's Alliance, which includes his Justice and Development Party (AKP) and the ultra-nationalist Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), won 52.5 percent of the vote, with Muharrem Ince from the rival Republican People's Party (CHP) trailing with 30.6 percent. kw/rt (AP, dpa)