In an interview with ultra-conservative US news website Breitbart, US President Donald Trump's ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, heavily criticized Berlin's defense spending, saying Germany is losing credibility. The US's envoy in Berlin also tasked himself with "empowering" the European right. Grenell had already riled officials in the Bundestag, despite only formally assuming the ambassador post last month, by urging German companies doing in business in Iran to leave the country after Trump announced plans to withdraw the US from the Iranian nuclear pact. His remarks to Breitbart could make an even more isolated figure in the German capital. Grenell is 'excited' about conservative resurgence in Europe  No 'credible threat of military action' Addressing Germany's military expenditure, an often referred to gripe within the Trump administration, Grenell said: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2spl9 Based on growth predictions, Germany is set to spend just over 1 percent of GDP on defense in the next four years, well short of the 2 percent mark agreed on by NATO allies during the 2014 summit in Wales. Germany's military also faces several points of crisis. Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen has decried the army's aged equipment. Meanwhile, last year, the Bundeswehr also uncovered widespread right-wing extremism among several troops. Read more: Donald Trump rails against German defense spending shortfall West Germany officially joined the trans-Atlantic alliance in 1955. However, it wasn't until after reunification in 1990 that the German government considered "out of area" missions led by NATO. From peacekeeping to deterrence, Germany's Bundeswehr has since been deployed in several countries across the globe in defense of its allies. In 1995, Germany participated in its first "out of area" NATO mission as part of a UN-mandated peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the deployment, German soldiers joined other NATO member forces to provide security in the wake of the Bosnian War. The peacekeeping mission included more than 60,000 troops from NATO's member states and partners. Since the beginning of the NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, some 8,500 German soldiers have been deployed in the young country. In 1999, NATO launched an air assault against Serbian forces accused of carrying out a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanian separatists and their civilian supporters. Approximately 550 Bundeswehr troops are still stationed in Kosovo. In 2016, Germany deployed its combat support ship "Bonn" to lead a NATO mission backed by the EU in the Aegean Sea. The mission included conducting "reconnaissance, monitoring and surveillance of illegal crossings" in Greek and Turkish territorial waters at the height of the migration crisis. Germany, Greece and Turkey had requested assistance from the trans-Atlantic alliance. In 2003, Germany's parliament voted to send Bundeswehr troops to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Germany became the third-largest contributor of troops and led the Regional Command North. More than 50 German troops were killed during the mission. Nearly a thousand soldiers are still deployed in Afghanistan as part of Resolute Support. Forming part of NATO's "enhanced forward presence" in the Baltic states, 450 Bundeswehr soldiers have been deployed to Lithuania so far in 2017. The battalion-size battlegroups there are led by Germany, Canada, the UK and US to reinforce collective defense on the alliance's eastern flank. It forms the "biggest reinforcement of Alliance collective defence in a generation," according to NATO. The Bundeswehr is due to take over leadership of NATO's multinational Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) at the start of 2019. The rapid reaction force has been set up to counter potential Russian aggression on the alliance's eastern flank. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Migration remains Berlin's key issue On Germany's migration policy, which continues to dominate the political debate, Grenell said: Read more: Germany's asylum system in numbers Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2pwn1 'Empowering' Europe's conservatives Grenell said he was excited by the rising wave of conservatism within Europe, adding that he saw his task as "empowering" Europe's right-wing governments and budding leaders. He told Breitbart: Kurz's Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) this year formed a governing coalition with the right-wing populist Freedom Party (FPÖ). Austria's young government remains one of the loudest voices in Europe for securing the bloc's external border. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2clms Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.