With 20 matches gone, the standout team performances of Russia 2018 have come largely from unfancied nations; Senegal's clinical upset against Poland, Mexico's thrilling dismantling of world champions Germany and Russia's party-starting hammering of Saudi Arabia. Of course, it's early in the tournament and none of the six pre-tournament favorites will be too nervous just yet. But none of them can rest easy either. Let's have a look at how the "big six" have fared, and what's around the corner. Brazil Under the guidance of Tite, Brazil were thought to be a better side than the one that crumbled to a 7-1 defeat to Germany on home turf four years ago. But after a Coutinho stunner got them off to a flyer, they were pegged back by Switzerland in their Group E opener by some slack defending and were worryingly quick to lose their rhythm. Their talisman Neymar was an injury doubt before the tournament and has missed training ahead of the Selecao's next fixture against Costa Rica on Friday, while the country's federation complained about VAR not being used in some key moments of the game. Germany Where Brazil labored and complained, Germany had no choice but to take their loss to Mexico on the chin. A team that has looked so united for so long suddenly seemed to age before the eyes of the world on Sunday and were fortunate to escape with only a 1-0 loss. Thomas Müller was one of several Germans who struggled against Mexico The mood around the world champions' camp has been both introspective and bullish this week but there must be serious question marks against some of Joachim Löw's key men. Sami Khedira lost control of the midfield, Mesut Özil and Thomas Müller were both absent and even Joshua Kimmich, normally so impressive, failed to react to the Mexicans taking advantage of his positioning. Löw himself has also come under scrutiny for leaving his substitutions so late. A loss against Sweden and Die Mannschaft could become the fourth of the last five world champions to exit at the group stage the tournament after victory. Spain The 2010 winners were impressive on the front foot against Portugal and came up against the inspired figure of Cristiano Ronaldo. But they also shot themselves in the foot — huge errors from David de Gea and Nacho were gifts to the Real Madrid man. Wednesday's performance against Iran was probably more troubling for rookie coach Fernando Hierro. Iran were content to sit deep but Spain were unable to pick the lock, relying on a hugely lucky bounce off Diego Costa's leg to break the deadlock and surviving a disallowed Iranian goal. Hierro's men still need at least a draw against Morocco to ensure they progress. France France have a glut of attacking talent that looks, on paper at least, the pick of the World Cup bunch. But too many cooks spoilt the broth as they limped to a late 2-1 victory over Australia on Saturday with the help of technology — both VAR and goal-line — and a good old-fashioned deflection. Didier Deschamps has never really convinced as coach of the side he captained to a World Cup win in 1998 and the pacy forward line of Kylian Mbappe, Antoine Griezmann and Ousmane Dembele failed to impress, with Olivier Giroud a candidate to offer a different threat against Denmark on Thursday. Belgium Dries Mertens' volley broke the deadlock for Belgium Roberto Martinez' men have probably graduated from dark horses to genuine contenders and, after a slow start, easily picked off Panama on Monday. Dries Mertens' opener was outrageous while Romelu Lukaku's brace is a boost to the Red Devils' chances. But, truth be told, the World Cup debutants were never likely to pose any great threat while Tunisia, who they face on Saturday, are similarly limited. England, on June 28, may be their first real test. But it's been the mental challenge of the knockout round that's been Belgium's biggest problem in recent years, whether they can clear that particular hurdle remains to be seen. Argentina Despite their inexperience and lack of star names, Iceland are no mugs. As England will testify. But still, any side containing Lionel Messi, Sergio Aguero and Angel di Maria and able to leave Paulo Dybala kicking his heels on the bench should feel confident of putting them away. Messi's penalty miss grabbed the headlines but Argentina lacked any real cohesion, constantly looking to the Barcelona man to pull a rabbit out of the hat on Saturday. For once, he couldn't. But it's difficult to escape the feeling he may need to if they are to reach the latter stages in Russia. A talented Croatia team await on Thursday before a potentially-decisive final group game against Nigeria. Disgraced former FIFA president Sepp Blatter made a shock appearance as Portugal beat Morocco 1-0 on Wednesday. The 82-year-old said he was invited to the tournament by Russian President Vladimir Putin. His successor Gianni Infantino was also at the fixture, according to FIFA's list of dignitaries. "I am still president, just suspended," Blatter told Russian channel RT. Less than a month after the Champions League final, when he sustained a shoulder injury that some thought could threaten his World Cup, Mohamed Salah returned to the pitch. Liverpool's Egyptian king first drew a foul that led to a penalty and then converted from the spot. But it was a mere consolation as Egypt lost 3-1 to hosts Russia and lost their chance of progressing to the knockout stage. Harry Kane scored England's first ever second-half stoppage time World Cup goal to give the Three Lions all three points against Tunisia. Kane had given England a deserved early lead before Tunisia equalized with a controversial penalty. But captain Kane popped up again in injury time with a back-post header to win it for Gareth Southgate's team. Germany lost their first match at a World Cup for the first time since 1982, when West Germany lost 2-1 to Algeria. This time they fell 1-0 to Mexico. Joachim Löw's men were beaten by a better organized and more energetic Mexican side. Even Germany's No. 1, Manuel Neuer, couldn't prevent the defeat. Undeterred by the driving rain, Icelandic fans in Reykjakvik followed their team's first-ever World Cup match on large video screens set up in the heart of the capital. After the match, they celebrated their team's 1-1 draw with 2014 finalists Argentina as if it had been a victory. Superstar Lionel Messi and the rest of the Argentinian national team had their problems with Iceland in their opening match in Group D. The 2014 finalists could only manage a 1-1 draw, and Messi, the five-time world footballer of the year, often looked very ordinary indeed. In the 64th minute, he even failed to score from the penalty spot. Shortly before the match between Iran and Morocco kicked off, the Iranian government banned outdoor public gatherings to watch the game. In St. Petersburg, though, Iranian women, who would not be allowed into a stadium in their homeland, took the opportunity to make their view known. One of the lowest-profile opening games to grace any World Cup wasn't much of a contest. Russia were far too good for a poor Saudi Arabia side and ran out 5-0 winners. Denis Cheryshev (center) came off the bench to score the second and added another sensational strike in injury time. The opening fixture of this year's tournament between two of the world's biggest gas exporters, Saudi Arabia and Russia, was ironically dubbed "El Gasico" by some fans. Here, Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman Al Saud chats to FIFA President Gianni Infantino, while Russian President Vladimir Putin watches the action. Putin (second from left) also made an appearance before the opening with a plethora of footballing greats. Lothar Matthäus (far left), Pele and Maradona (center), Jay Jay Okocha (far right) and Kanu (back right) were also in attendance. More than 500 local dancers, gymnasts and performers joined pop star Robbie Williams and Russian soprano Aida Garifullina on stage at the tournament's opening ceremony. Shorter than most such events, the 15-minute-long display also featured speeches from Russian President Vladimir Putin and FIFA President Gianni Infantino.