The United States and six other OAS member states on Monday called for the Organization of American States (OAS) to suspend Venezuela and take other measures to punish the Latin American country. The Washington-based OAS has a total of 35 member nations in the Americas — from Antigua to Uruguay.   Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told an OAS meeting that Venezuela's presidential vote in May was a "sham" and accused President Nicolas Maduro of "dismantling democracy." "The suspension is not a goal by itself, but it will show that the OAS backs its words with actions," US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Mexico and Peru supported the US in proposing a resolution rejecting the result of the "unconstitutional" election. If passed, it would initiate a process that could lead to Venezuela's suspension. Venezuelan Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza pushed back against Pompeo's remarks Pompeo said more Latin American countries should join the US in bringing diplomatic and economic sanctions against Venezuela. Read more: Venezuela begins to free dozens of jailed activists 'Moral authority' Venezuela's foreign minister, Jorge Arreaza, was at Monday's OAS meeting in Washington and denounced the US-backed action against the country. "No government has the moral authority to recognize or not our government," he said. He added that the threat of suspension was moot because Venezuela began a two-year process in April 2017 to leave the bloc. "How are they going to eject us from a place we already left?" Arreaza said. Read more: Venezuela government committed 'crimes against humanity' Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term on May 20 with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to the election body. However, the MUD opposition alliance, which boycotted the vote, put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States called the elections neither free nor fair. Author: Kathleen Schuster 'Continent free of dictatorships' OAS Secretary General Luis Almagro, who has repeatedly criticized Maduro's government, also joined the US in condemning Venezuela, saying the "we must have a continent free of dictatorships." Bolivia was the only OAS member country to voice support for Maduro during the meeting. Pompeo's call to suspend Venezuela follows US Vice President Mike Pence's similar call during a speech to the OAS in May. Pence is expected to reiterate the plea during a White House reception on Monday evening for senior OAS officials.  The OAS General Assembly is expected to vote on the US-backed resolution, but it remains unclear if the US motion criticizing Maduro's government would gather the required backing of two-thirds of member states. Venezuela, which has some of the largest oil reserves in the world, has nonetheless been in the midst of a severe political and economic crisis at home and growing isolation abroad since Maduro first took office in 2013. Read more: EU ministers prepare new Venezuela sanctions after criticized elections amp/jm (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.