The US Justice Department said on Monday a 41-page felony complaint alleged the man was paid $800,000 (€684,000) for passing on technology and information about US military and intelligence issues. Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) arrested the man on Saturday while he was on his way to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport to catch a connecting flight to China. Read more: China rejects 'preposterous' African Union headquarters spying report The man spent more than 20 years in the US Army, including time with the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). He left the military in 2006 but worked as a civilian case officer with the DIA for several months. He then attended trade conferences on behalf of China and is accused of sharing information with officials linked to Chinese intelligence. He also tried to work as a double agent, according to the felony complaint. Read more: Chinese hackers spying on Indians using WhatsApp, warns army Department of Justice, Washington 'Betrayal' "His alleged actions are a betrayal of our nation's security and the American people and are an affront to his former intelligence community colleagues," said John Demers, the head of the Justice Department's National Security Division. The accused appeared in a Seattle court on Monday to hear the 15-count complaint against him. If convicted, he faces life in prison. His case is the latest incident of alleged spying by US intelligence agents for the Chinese government. A former CIA case officer, and a former intelligence agent have also been charged with selling intelligence to Beijing. Read more: FBI agent pleads guilty to working for China US and Philippine soldiers began their largest joint military exercises in more than a decade on Monday, April 20, in what defense analysts say is Washington's rebalancing act in Asia in the face of China's expansion in South China Sea. In this picture, US marines aboard Amphibious Assault Vehicles (AAV) manuevre on disputed waters. US marines take up positions during the annual "Balikatan" (shoulder-to-shoulder) war games with Filipino soldiers at the shore of San Antonio, Zambales, in the northern Philippines. Manila has been keen to boost its military capacity and show off its close ties to the US at a time when China flexes its muscles to gain control of the disputed South China Sea. The two allies signed a defense pact in April last year, which gave the US a bigger military presence in the island nation. The deal was inked right before US President Barack Obama's arrival in Manila. Here, a US soldier gives instructions to Philippine military personnel during the war games at Fort Magsaysay, in Nueva Ecija. China claims most of the potentially energy-rich waterway, through which $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes every year. The US Pacific Fleet commander recently said China was "creating a great wall of sand" in the South China Sea, causing serious concerns about its territorial intentions. Beijing argues it is asserting its so-called "historic rights" to maritime resources in the area. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims, which have led to territorial disputes in the area. Last summer, China's deployment of a massive oil rig in waters also claimed by Hanoi escalated tensions in the region, sparking a standoff at sea and violent anti-Chinese demonstrations in Vietnam. Shortly before the start of the joint drill, Philippine military chief General Gregorio Pio Catapang Jr released surveillance photos at a press conference showing Chinese "reclamation of eight previously submerged reefs in the disputed Spratly Islands." He said the move would increase the risk of confrontation. But there is also opposition to US-Philippine "Balikatan" exercises in the country. On April 20, a demonstration was organized in the capital Manila against the military exercises. Protesters gathered outside the US embassy in Manila on April 20, displaying placards and denouncing the joint military drill. Author: Shamil Shams amp/jm (dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.