Japan and Senegal have played in an attacking style that showed they’re in it for the win. Senegal started the game in attacking fashion, and it paid off as quickly as the eleventh minute of the game. New Hannover signing Genki Haraguchi tried to clear the ball, but headed it straight to Senegal’s Youssouf Sabaly. The Bordeaux man’s shot went straight to the body of Japan keeper Eiji Kawashima, only for the the FC Metz shot stopper to punch the ball straight into Sadio Mane’s leg, and it went in. Japan tried to bounce back with a series of quick attacks, but the Lions of Teranga managed to keep Osako, Kagawa and co. at bay. Senegal had another good chance in the 22nd minute as Sarr used a Moussa Wague cross to shoot with his back to the Japan goal, but it was saved. However, Japan managed to get the equalizer in the 34th minute. Japan’s left back Nagatomo received the ball inside the box, and passed it to former Eintracht Frankfurt midfielder Takashi Inui, who calmly put the ball in the far corner. 1-1 was also the half time score. The second half started with two scoring opportunities for Senegal, but both Mbaye Niang and failed to make the most out of their respective chances. The former also took a shoot from well outside the box in the 54th minute, but Kawashima managed to grab it with both hands. Japan could have scored in the 60th minute as the ball was crossed deep into the box, but new Werder Bremen signing Yuya Osako just about failed to get a touch of it from close range. Four minutes later, and Japan was on the counter. Osako received the ball right next to the Senegal box, and then passed it wonderfully to Inui. The Eibar striker’s curled shot has hit the crossbar. But it was Senegal who managed to score their second. Sabaly’s cross was sleekly deflected by Niang with his heel, straight to Wague, whose shot went straight into the top corner. Great finish by the KAS Eupen left back. This was his first ever goal for Senegal. Japan have never come back from behind in a World Cup match, but they did just that twice in the space of one game. Substitute Keisuke Honda capped a quick counter to score Japan’s equalizer in the 77th minute. The former AC Milan midfielder is the first Japanese player to score in three World Cups. 2-2 was the final score, and with four points, both teams have their fates in their own hands going into the last round of games. Here's how it happened: FT Japan 2-2 Senegal — Japan twice come from behind to draw with Senegal, but Japan will feel they could even have won it. Both teams will be on four points going into the final group games. 90' Four added minutes. 88' Senegal unable to really make an impression in Japan's half at the moment. There is only one side ending this game on the front foot, and it's the Japanese. 85' Japan look like taking a point here but there's a strong argument that they deserve all three. A fine display by them, especially in the second half. 82' Japan have got their reward by hanging in this game. Senegal the dominant force in the first half, but Japan have been clinical in attack. 78' GOAL! Japan 2-2 Senegal — Japan are level! Osako gets to the byline and cuts it back for the substitute Keisuke Honda, who finishes from close range! 75' Niang fires a ball across the face of the Japan goal but no one is there to get the touch. 70' GOAL! Japan 1-2 Senegal — Moussa Wague scores for Senegal! Sabaly puts the ball into the box from the left and the 19-year-old right back Wague runs on to it and thumps it into the roof of the net! 66' Japan knocking on the door now. And they're knocking hard! 65' Off the bar! Japan so close to taking the lead after a brilliant break down the left. Osako finds Inui with a lovely back heel and Inui curls a delicious shot at goal — only to see it bounce back off the bar. 62' Sarr claiming a penalty but he's gone down a little easy and the referee wasn't inclined to refer it to VAR. 59' Japan seize on a loose pass by Badou Ndiaye. The Japanese rush forward and a cross from the right finds Osako, who must score! Instead he inexplicably fails to make contact. What a let-off for Senegal. 55' Two crosses cause panic in the Japanese box before the ball comes to Niang, who has a go from the edge of the box but Kawashima gets down to make the stop. Senegal looking more dangerous now. 51' Decent chance for Senegal as a loose ball breaks to Pape Alioune Ndiaye on the edge of the box, but he can't curl his shot in as he'd intended. Just wide and quite high. 49' Chance for Japan as Osako leaps to head at goal, but his header is tame and Ndiaye makes the save. 46' SECOND HALF. We're back underway. HT Japan 1-1 Senegal — That's the first 45 minutes done and it's all square. Senegal the better side for at least the first 30 minutes, but they have let Japan back in. Japan proving a tricky side to get the better of in this tournament. 42' Ndiaye's corner from the left is flicked on at the near post by Sane, but no one is able to get the final touch and Japan breathe again. 37' Japan have been buoyed by that goal and are seeing a lot more of the ball now. That run by Nagatomo for the goal proved that Senegal are not as impenetrable as it seemed. 34' GOAL! Japan 1-1 Senegal —  Japan are level! Nagatomo collects the ball on the left and cuts it back to Takashi Inui, who takes a touch and bends a lovely low shot into the far corner. All square! 30' Senegal just probing and waiting for right moment. They're a lot more accomplished than their opponents, who are struggling to get into dangerous areas in the Senegal half. 26' Ndiaye crashes a header at goal but it's blocked and scrambled to safety. 23' Japan are trying a few different ways to break Senegal down, but the African side look very comfortable out there. Totally in charge. 20' A nice free-kick is sent into the Senegal penalty box by Shibasaki, but Senegal's rock at the back, Koulibaly, thumps it clear. 17' Japan put together their best attack of the game. Hasebe, of Eintracht Frankfurt, has a go from 25 yards but Sane, of Hannover, makes a crucial block. 15' Japan will need to defend better than this, especially against a Senegal side with serious pace and power going forward. Sadio Mane and Youssouf Sabaly celebrate Senegal's opener. 12' GOAL! Japan 0-1 Senegal — A slice of luck for Mane, who gives Senegal the lead! A shot is fumbled by Kawashima and bounces back off Mane and straight in. Mane was in the right place at the right time. 7' More Senegal pressure. Youssouf Sabaly's cross is held by Japan keeper Eiji Kawashima, but Japan are under the cosh a bit here. 4' Koulibaly and Sabalay halt a Japanese attack and launch a counter-attack down the left, and Niang wins Senegal a corner. 1' KICK OFF We're underway. - Here are the lineups for today's contest... - Senegal defeated Poland in the first round 2-1. A Thiago Cionek own goal gave Senegal the lead in the first half and Mbaye Niang doubled it in the second. - Japan topped Colombia 2-1 in one of the bigger upsets at the World Cup so far. Bundesliga players Shinji Kagawa (Borussia Dortmund) and Yuya Osako (Werder Bremen) both scored for Japan. It was the first time an Asian side has ever defeated a South American one at a World Cup. - Japan and Senegal face off for the for the fourth time ever as a wide-open Group H gets back underway. Both teams have the opportunity to secure a spot in the knockout stages with a victory.