A regional court in the western German city of Osnabrück this week handed down sentences for five individuals — four of them members of the socialist Left Party — found guilty of election fraud. Four of the defendants, who ran for city council in Quakenbrück, Lower Saxony, were given suspended prison sentences on Monday of between seven and 18 months. Among them was Andreas Maurer, who heads the Left Party in the region. He received a suspended sentence of seven months and one week. A fifth individual was ordered to pay a fine for aiding and abetting election fraud Maurer, a 48-year-old former postman, was born in Kazakhstan and moved to Germany in the late 1980s. He made headlines in Germany recently for traveling to Russian-occupied Crimea and visiting pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine's Donbass region. He also appeared on Russian television talk shows, in which he called for western sanctions against Moscow to be lifted and for Crimea to be recognized as a part of Russia, and met Russian President Vladimir Putin. This year alone, Maurer visited Crimea twice — despite objections by Ukraine's ambassador in Berlin. Currently, foreigners need a permit from Ukrainian authorities if they want to visit the peninsula and are obliged to use a Ukrainian border crossing to do so. Foreigners who instead travel to Crimea via Russian territory risk being refused entry into Ukraine. An election result that raised eyebrows Many were surprised when Germany's Left Party received more than 60 percent of votes in Quakenbrück, which as a large immigrant population, in the 2016 local elections — far more than its average support base in the region. Maurer told reporters he intends to appeal his conviction Complaints ensued, and an investigation revealed that signatures on applications for absentee ballots did not match those on the respective ballots. It later transpired that the accused individuals had convinced voters with little or no command of the German language to request absentee ballots, which the politicians themselves then filled in, putting a mark next to their own name and faking voters' signatures. In this way, one of the now sentenced politicians secured a total of 558 absentee votes for himself — while later only receiving six votes in person on election day. Ultimately, a partial snap election was held. Three of the four accused politicians were again voted onto the city council – despite losing a substantial number of votes. One decided to withdraw his candidacy. Now that all four have been sentenced, they will most likely lose their political posts. The sentence means that for four years, all will lose the right to be elected a delegate. A difficult trial Before the trial came to an end, Maurer told DW he expected to be acquitted. The Osnabrück court's decision is not yet final and Maurer's lawyers intend to appeal. Maurer himself told journalists he would remain tenacious, and has dismissed calls to resign. He says the court decision is politically motivated, and describes the evidence presented against him as "insufficient." Prosecutors did in fact struggle to prove the politicians were involved in election fraud because, among other reasons, 65 witnesses questioned repeatedly made false statements to protect the accused, according to the presiding judge. Maurer says he wants to remain politically active, regardless of whether his appeal before a higher court is successful or not — even if that means he can no longer be involved in local politics or travel to Crimea as a German delegate. His appearances on Russian TV, according to him, no longer have an official political context. He says he now engages in "peoples' diplomacy" and stressed to DW that "of course I will continue to travel wherever I want." Austria's Vice Chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache has repeatedly called for EU sanctions against Russia to be lifted. Strache, who is also the leader of the populist FPÖ party, criticized NATO expansion to the east. "It wasn't Russia who was the aggressor in recent decades, who was trying to spread its zone of military influence towards the border of the European Union," he said in 2015. Far-right veteran Jean-Marie Le Pen got into trouble in 2015, when, in addition to saying gas chambers were a "detail" of history, he claimed that France should get along with Russia to save the "white world." These statements prompted his daughter Marine to push him ouf of the Front National party. French nationalist leader Marine Le Pen has described sanctions against Russia as "completely stupid." She also claimed Crimea "has always been Russian." Her party admits to taking loans from Russian banks, but Le Pen rejected claims of Moscow's influence as outrageous and harmful. The photo shows her meeting with Vladmir Putin in the Kremlin in 2017. Germany's anti-migrant AFD party is relatively popular among German voters with Russian background. Senior members of the party, including then-leader Frauke Petry, meet Putin's ruling party lawmakers in Moscow in 2017. The AFD also believes the EU sanctions are a "farce." However, party co-leader Alexander Gauland denies that the party supports Putin and "his authoritarian regime." Hungarian strongman Viktor Orban often hosts Russia's Vladimir Putin in Budapest and the two leaders share many similarities in their ruling style. Orban has complained that politicians in Brussels must "demonize" Putin in order to be considered good Europeans. However, Hungary also joined the UK-led diplomatic offensive by expelling Russian diplomats over the poisoning of Sergei Skripal. Dutch right-wing politician Geert Wilders slammed Russia after flight MH17 was shot down in 2014 and backed sanctions against the country In 2018, however, he sparked outrage from relatives of MH17 victims by decrying "russophobia" during a Moscow visit. Wilders describes himself as a "a big fan of NATO and of the Americans" but says Russia could be an ally against migration and Islamic terrorism. Italy's populist League and the Five Star Movement form a ruling coalition in Italy. Both parties oppose sanctions on Russia and NATO's "aggressive" buildup in Eastern Europe. Following the elections, the League's leader Matteo Salvini said he wanted "to work for peace, not for war. I do not want to assemble little tanks like the game of Risk.” Author: Darko Janjevic