German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday struck back at President Donald Trump's repeated complaints over the US' trade deficit. Merkel pointed out the US actually runs a significant account surplus with Europe if one factors services into the equation. She went on to say that the current accounting systems for global trade needed to be updated to also take services into account. "Trade surpluses are calculated in a relatively old-fashioned way nowadays," she told an audience of businessmen at the Christian Democratic party's Economic Council Conference in Berlin. "If services are included in the trade balance, then the US runs a big surplus with Europe. And the share of services will only grow." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2z0AC Several German economists have long made similar arguments. The chancellor also stressed that German direct investment into the US was significantly higher than the other way around. Read more: German economy expands on investment drive According to the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the US goods and services trade deficit with the EU was $92 billion (€78 billion) in 2016. The US goods trade deficit was $137 billion, while it ran a services trade surplus of $55 billion. The top services were in professional and management services, intellectual property, travel and education. Global trade fiasco Merkel's remarks came just days after disputes over trade saw the annual Group of Seven (G7) summit end in chaos, as Trump refused to endorse the group's final communique and accused Canada's Justin Trudeau of being "very dishonest" in his condemnation of US tariffs. Trump has defended his decision to impose steel and aluminum duties on the US' Western allies. The president has also mulled placing punitive tariffs on foreign car imports, a restriction that would particularly affect the German economy. Merkel admitted Tuesday the current global trade climate was "challenging" but that Europe's prosperity depended on the continent's ability to act with "courage and determination." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zJ8E dm/cmk (Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.