Carlo Chatrian, artistic director of the Locarno film festival since 2012, will reportedly become the new artistic director of the Berlinale as of 2020, according to reports by newspapers B.Z. and Bild. The news was neither confirmed nor denied by Monika Grütters, Germany's commissioner for culture and the media, who is set to officially reveal the name of the new director at a press conference on Friday. Along with the selected artistic director, a second person, who would take on the role of festival "manager," is additionally expected to be named to replace Dieter Kosslick, who has headed the Berlinale since 2001. Read more:Dieter Kosslick, the man behind the festival In an interview with Germany's Zeit Online magazine last summer, Chatrian didn't seem to expect to be named for the role. While he said he considered the Berlinale to be one of the world's most exciting festivals, he didn't believe he would be chosen to direct it, as he doesn't speak German. He does however understand the language. The Turin-born former journalist and film programmer has worked at the Locarno film festival  since 2002, taking over as artistic director in 2012. If Chatrian's appointment is confirmed on Friday, his new position will lead the Swiss festival to launch its own search for a new director. The perspective of finding Kosslick's successor led to a major discussion in Germany, with prominent directors signing an open letter calling for a new start for a new start for the Berlin festival. For 10 days in August, the charming city of Locarno in the Italian-speaking part of Switzerland becomes the center of the international film world. Locarno is one of the most significant film festivals in Europe - following Cannes, Berlin and Venice. Here, visitors can enjoy the unique experience of watching movies outside, such as on the Piazza Grande shown above. Though fewer in numbers than at festivals like Cannes or Venice, big-name stars do make an appearance in Locarno each year. Among the celebrities walking across the red carpet this year were US actor Adrien Brody and film icon Nastassja Kinski, both of whom received an honorary award. The Golden Leopard for best film is shared equally by the winning director and producer. After the city's Grand Hotel was considered too small, the Piazza Grande became the heart of the festival in 1971. Heavy rains forced organizers back then to drill holes in the plastic chairs that had been set up for the viewers. Since summer storms are common in the region, festival regulars know to bring raincoats along. Particularly popular at the Locarno festival are films that were directed and produced by one and the same person. Quite a few filmmakers started their career here, among them Spike Lee. When Jim Jarmusch (pictured) was invited to Locarno in 1984, he was already a famous filmmaker. His "Stranger than Paradise" won best debut film in Cannes, and was also awarded the Golden Leopard. In its 70th anniversary year, a new location has been added to the festival - the so-called PalaCinema, a modern movie theater right next to the medieval Castello. The festival tries to attract young people from the region with a street fair. LaRotonda is particularly popular - even though it's located in the middle of a roundabout. German contributions enjoy a good reputation at the festival, with several German films usually running in both the jury and the audience competitions. Among the German filmmakers who have been awarded a Golden Leopard are Wolfgang Becker, Werner Herzog and Wim Wenders, who dressed up as a leopard himself when he received an honorary leopard in 2005. This year, fans are a particularly trendy accessory, including those with a festival-appropriate leopard design. Summer temperatures exceeded 35 degrees Celcius during the first half of the festival, making the fans not just stylish but also very practical. Another way of cooling down in Locarno is to jump into the Lago Maggiore or the Maggia River between screenings. The region in Switzerland is a popular destination for tourists in the summer. Author: Julia Hitz (ad) eg/ct (with dpa) 