DW: Mr. Prime Minister, there are different interpretations of the EU's decision to start membership talks with Macedonia and Albania. Your government claimed it as a historic success but critics say it is another postponement and disappointment for the country. How do you see the decision? Zoran Zaev: It is a great day for the Republic of Macedonia. A great acknowledgment for our country. The European Union and the leaders of all member states recognized the Republic of Macedonia as a country of positive changes, of dynamic reform process, inclusiveness and of open dialogue. There is no other description for this decision: it is a historic one. We have a date for negotiations: June 2019. Until then, together with our friends and partners from the European Commission, we will work on accomplishing the criteria, or in other words, implementation of the phases in the agreement with Greece and finalizing of the reforms. We are very close to our goal of reaching the EU standards. We have a clear goal ahead of us. We have our last homework assignment to finalize – the last phase of the reforms. Then, we can proudly enter through the gates of Europe. DW: Would the EU decision have been possible without German support considering the strong resistance from France and other EU members? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2sDZf Germany's dedication to the results that the Western Balkan countries should deliver has been of utmost importance and a great motivation for us to complete our reforms. The Republic of Macedonia deeply appreciates the strong messages of support coming from Germany for our strategic goals – our NATO and EU membership. I would like to use this moment to thank Chancellor [Angela] Merkel for initiating the Berlin Process and for having Germany as one of the strongest supporters of this process. This initiative is the key motivator for the new, dynamic regional cooperation on the highest political levels. DW: Why did France and the Netherlands so strongly object to Macedonia's bid to start negotiations sooner? We understand the positions and needs of the EU member countries who believe that the EU firstly needs a consolidation before the further enlargement with new members. At the same time, we believe there are arguments supporting the idea that the EU consolidation will be finalized if the enlargement process continues, because in this way, important safety and security issues connected with external influences can be effectively managed. That is the next necessary step in accordance with the political, security and economic interests of the Union. The consolidation of the EU will be complete when the union accepts the Western Balkan countries that fulfill the necessary conditions in its family – of course, including the Republic of Macedonia. DW: In its conclusions regarding Macedonia the EU asks for more focus on these key areas: judicial reforms, tackling corruption, intelligence, security services and public administration. Can your government deliver on these reforms in a relatively short period until June 2019? I am convinced we can achieve that. All those points have passed through the first phase of the reform process and will be further intensified with the new comprehensive reform plan that will be adopted very soon. We have all arguments to say that the recommendations established with the date for negotiations, will be fully implemented! DW: On another topic: recently Albania was mentioned as a possible destination for a refugee and migrant camp. Is there pressure on Macedonia from some EU members to allow such a camp on its territory, too? In this moment, in the government of the Republic of Macedonia there are no discussions about opening refugee camps here. Macedonia already has two functioning transit centers for short stays of migrants and the security of the national borders in this moment is generally good, but there are no conditions for opening new migrant camps. DW: Less than two weeks ago your government signed a historic agreement with neighboring Greece on the name issue. How much harder does this conditional invitation from the EU makes your efforts to convince the nationalists and the opposition in your country to support the deal? I remain firmly and fully dedicated to demonstrating that this agreement with Greece solves the biggest problem that was preventing our development since our independence. We got a crystal-clear confirmation for the Macedonian language and identity. Macedonians, at home and abroad. Translatable, without any limitations, into all languages in the world. An identity for overall use. Those political factors that cannot see this are creating new divisions. We need to unite around this new historical opportunity. I believe in this, and I will invest all my political integrity and energy to that end. DW: Yet there is strong resistance in Greece against the recognition of a "Macedonian nation" and "Macedonian language" as part of the agreement. Is that a cause of concern for you? The fact that the political parties in opposition of both countries are against the agreement between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Greece shows that a good compromise between the people of both counties has been reached. The citizens of Macedonia got a full recognition of the Macedonian identity on all accounts, and the citizens of Greece got a recognition for the Hellenic inheritance from the ancient part of history. The political parties in both countries have had an opportunity to solve this dispute for decades, but they have not done anything. On the contrary, they were only strengthening the differences. Now, when faced with the fact that a solution is possible, and that this solution is equally acceptable for both sides, they chose to disprove it, instead of accepting that this is the only way the two countries can move forward. DW: Are there any plans for new meetings with the Greek PM [Alexis] Tsipras in order to maintain the process of rapprochement between the two countries? The possibilities for meetings are now continuously open. We have built a friendship though this process that allows us to communicate in different ways at any given moment. There are no more barriers for our connection. Together we will follow and celebrate the process after Prespa. Air pollution causes more than 1,300 premature deaths per year in the Macedonian capital, according to official statistics. Particle pollution (PM) in Skopje is more than ten times higher than the air quality standards set by the European Union - both regarding PM10 - particles measuring less than 10 microns - and smaller PM2,5 particles, which can enter the lungs and even the bloodstream. The problem escalates every winter as a result of industrial emissions, smoke from wood-burning stoves and exhaust fumes from old cars. Macedonian authorities have announced a set of emergency measures aimed at fighting the high air pollution levels. Public transport is temporarily free for everyone. Pregnant women and people over 60 years of age are excused from work. Skopje’s public transportation system is underdeveloped, consisting only of buses. Many of these do not meet the most basic environmental standards. Bicycles are rarely used because the city lacks the necessary infrastructure and road traffic culture makes cycling a risky adventure, with accidents on an almost daily occurence. Local media reported that shops in Skopje have run out of anti-pollution masks as many residents are looking for protection from the polluted air. Local NGOs are alarmed: Pollution in Skopje is above average on 269 days per year, they warned, asking the government and local authorities to subsidize a series of measures which could improve air quality in the long term. Stuttgart, one of the most polluted cities in Germany, raises an alarm when the PM10 particles in the air reach 80 micrograms per cubic meter. In Skopje, the average for winter months is more than twice as high - around 200 - with peaks often reaching 600 micrograms of PM10 or more. Even geopolitical interests are involved in the fight against pollution. As the air pollution in Macedonia worsened, the US Embassy in Skopje asked for ideas via Twitter. "AirPollution in Skopje was so thick today, you could hardly see the embassy! What ideas do you have for cleaner air in #Macedonia?" It is not unusual for the US and other Western embassies in Macedonia to engage in such public stunts. But this time the answer came directly from Moscow… "As our friends from @usembassymkd are searching for ideas for the air pollution in Macedonia we want to help with a solution. #TurkishStream," answered the Russian embassy. Turkish Stream is a Russian pipeline which - if completed - should run from Turkey to Greece and Macedonia to reach other Eastern European countries. The US are pushing for alternatives for the energy supply in the region. As Skopje is located in a valley surrounded by mountains from three sides, the only viable solution for its residents during the winter months is to search for a getaway in the nearby highlands. Apart from the clean air, they can enjoy some spectacular views - with their pets. Author: Boris Georgievski 