+++ Refresh page for live updates. All times in CEST+++ Peru 0-0 Denmark 57' - CLOSE! Christian Cueva receives a wonderful ball inside the box, but tries to shoot too late. The ball then wanders around the Denmark box, with no Peru player being able to take a shot at Denmark's goal! Great move by the South Americans, but Cueva's confidence looks shattered since that penalty miss... 53' - A slow start to the second half. The one chance so far came as Christian Eriksen took a free kick that ended up hitting the wall. The ball returned to Tottenham man, that took a shot that went well above the Peru goal. 45' - Second half is a go! 45' - HALF-TIME SCORE: 0-0 44' - PENALTY MISSED PERU! Yussuf Poulsen fouls Peru's Christian Cueva in the box. The referee turns to VAR, and decides for a penalty. Cueva takes the shot himself, but hits it well above Schmeichel's goal! 39' - Denmark's Eriksen takes the free kick. It hits the wall, but the ball goes back to Lasse Schöne, who shoots it straight into the hands of the Peruvian goalkeeper. 38 - Peru's Renato Tapia receives a yellow card for fouling Sisto on the edge of the box. 36' - Substitution Denmark: Injured William Kvist is being replaced by Lasse Schöne. Kvist has been taken on a stretcher and is receiving medical treatment. 32' - Danish midfielder William Kvist is lying injured after being hit by a Peruvian player's knee. It looks like Kvist will not be able to continue. 29' - CLOSE! Peru's Jefferson Farfan receives the ball in the Denmark box, turns around and takes a shot. The ball hits the Danish defender and goes just wide. Great game so far! 27' - CLOSE! New Borussia Dortmund signing Thomas Delaney runs through the middle and shots from about 30 meters, but the ball goes above the Peru goal. 20' - Calls for a handball! Denmark's Sisto tries to take a shot in the Peru box, and the ball is blocked by the defender in white. The referee says play on. 13' - CLOSE! Peru’s Renato Tapia cuts down the right wing and shoots once he enters the box, but the Danish keeper pushes it away. Peru are looking good so far.  7' - Peru are slightly the better team so far. Their best chance came as midfielder Yoshimar Yotun took a shot from about 25 meters, but Danish keeper Kasper Schmeichel got hold of the ball. The South American fans are clearly being heard more than their Danish counterparts. 1' - We're underway in Saransk! Peru are in the white tops with their trademark red stripe, while Denmark wear all red. Those energies as Peru's national anthem started playing... Impressive. Back to Group C we go! After France's rather fortunate victory over Australia earlier, Denmark are looking to get their campaign off to a winning start against Peru, who are making their first World Cup appearance since 1982.