China's Commerce Ministry said on Friday that it would "immediately introduce taxation measures of the same scale and the same strength" after the US revised its initial list of tariffs on Chinese imports, adding several technology products. The two giants have been trading tariffs and threats of tariffs for weeks now. Read more: IMF: President Donald Trump's tariffs pose risk to both global trade and US economy Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zbOI US President Donald Trump announced that the US would begin collecting 25 percent tariffs on Chinese goods worth $50 billion (roughly €43 billion) from July 6, repeating his pledge to clamp down on what he deems unfair trade practices by China. "The United States can no longer tolerate losing our technology and intellectual property through unfair economic practices," he said. The latest list specifically targets products that benefit from China's industrial subsidies, including the "Made in China 2025" technology plan. "We have the great brain power in Silicon Valley, and China — and others — steal those secrets," Trump said in an interview with Fox News. "We are going to protect those secrets, those are crown jewels for this country." "China's government is aggressively working to undermine America's high-tech industries and our economic leadership through unfair trade practices and industrial policies like 'Made in China 2025,'" US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement. Read more: China trade surplus with US widens again Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang, meanwhile, said that Chinese government had already drawn up its own list of $50 billion-worth of US products that would face retaliatory tariffs if Washington raised the stakes. The new list includes beef and soy beans, liable to hurt US agriculture in rural Republican heartlands. China "has no choice but to strongly oppose this, due to the United States' myopic behavior that will harm both parties," Beijing's Commerce Ministry said in a statement. China also called on other nations to take "collective action" against the US' tariff regime. The European Union, Canada and Mexico have also been slapped with US tariffs on steel and aluminum. All have threatened to impose their own duties on US goods in return. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yoVw dm/msh (Reuters, AP, AFP)