Hundreds of Vietnamese took to the streets in different parts of the country on Sunday to demonstrate against a government proposal to grant companies lengthy land leases.  A draft law would allow foreign investors to lease land in special economic zones for up to 99 years. Although the proposed legislation does not identify any country in particular, many in Vietnam fear that these economic zones could be dominated by Chinese firms. "The bill is designed to give a strong boost to the development of three special administrative and economic units, including Van Don in Quang Ninh province, Bac Van Phong in Khanh Hoa province and Phu Quoc in Kien Giang province, and room for institutional experiments," the government said. In response to the criticism over the bill, the government announced that it would be postponed until the October parliamentary session. Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc also said that the lease term would be reduced. Read more: South China Sea - what you need to know Anger against China The announcement, however, failed to pacify the demonstrators, who clashed with police over the weekend, with 102 people detained on Sunday. "No leasing land to China even for one day," chanted protesters in Hanoi and the economic hub Ho Chi Minh City. Protesters stormed a government building in Binh Thuan province, burned vehicles and fought with police, local media reported on Monday. Ties between Vietnam and China have deteriorated as a result of an ongoing conflict over South China Sea islands, which both countries claim. Read more: Vietnam protests China's missile deployment in South China Sea There have been protests against Chinese companies in Vietnam in the past, but public demonstrations are rare in the one-party state. Read more: Dissident blogger faces prison in Vietnam The first Chinese aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, was originally a Soviet model built in 1986. In 1998, the stripped hulk was sold to China by Ukraine and rebuilt by the Dailian Shipbuilding Industry Company in northeastern China. It was completed in 2012 and has been ready for service since 2016. In recent years, Vietnam has acquired six Russian Kilo-class submarines. Two were delivered in 2017. The subs are nicknamed "black holes" by the US Navy, because they run very quietly and are difficult to locate. They are specialized for missions in shallow waters and for defense against enemy ships and submarines. The BRP Gregorio del Pilar is the flagship of the Philippine Navy. The vessel is one of three former US Coast Guard cutters that were acquired by the Philippines. The ship was first put in service in 1967 and it was modernized in 2011. In 2012, it was involved in the dispute with the People's Republic of China over Scarborough Shoal. Indonesia is in the process of buying new ships and modernizing its navy. Pictured here is the KRI Sultan Hasanuddin, a Sigma-class corvette. The ship was built in 2007 in the Netherlands. Germany also supplies warships to countries in the region. The Kasturi-class corvettes in Malaysia and Brunei's Darussalam-class high-seas patrol boats come from Germany shipyards. Singapore is unmatched for hi-tech in the region. Since 2007, city-state has put six Formidable-class stealth ships in service. All of them were built in France. The only truly global naval power remains the US Navy. The seventh fleet is stationed in the Pacific. It is the largest forward-deployed fleet of the US Navy with 50-60 ships, 350 aircraft and 60,000 personnel. This includes the only US aircraft carrier stationed outside of the US, the USS Ronald Regan, stationed at the US naval base in Yokosuka, Japan. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen (wr) ng,shs/amp (Reuters, AFP)