As part of NATO's European build-up, the military alliance will create a new command center in southern Germany and another in the US state of Virginia, the DPA news agency said in an exclusive report on Friday. The move comes as a response to Russia's military assertiveness in Crimea and eastern Ukraine. The crisis which started in 2014 already saw Germany and the US deploy troops to NATO's eastern flank, including Poland and the Baltic states. Citing a confidential NATO report, DPA said the alliance still had doubts over its capability to respond quickly and adequately to a potential Russian assault. Troops are concerned about the state of traffic infrastructure that could be used to move troops in Eastern Europe, but also about bureaucratic hurdles that could slow down its response. The new German compound would serve to alleviate such problems. The base would be build in the city of Ulm, which already hosts a multinational military headquarters for conducting crisis deployments across the world. Read more: Germans protest US military movements outside Berlin Construction to start in July NATO officials are set to announce the decision at a ministerial summit next week in Brussels, according to the agency. German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen is planning to attend the meeting. NATO leaders hope the new command post would start construction in July and open as early as October next year. However, it would only become fully operational in 2021. Read more: The strenghts and weaknesses of Russia's military The alliance officials have yet to decide about the exact number of soldiers for the new post, DPA said. NATO will also build a new command post in Norfolk, Virginia, to protect naval ways and sensitive infrastructure between North America and Europe. The infrastructure also includes transatlantic internet cables that carry data between the continents. dv/rt (dpa) West Germany officially joined the trans-Atlantic alliance in 1955. However, it wasn't until after reunification in 1990 that the German government considered "out of area" missions led by NATO. From peacekeeping to deterrence, Germany's Bundeswehr has since been deployed in several countries across the globe in defense of its allies. In 1995, Germany participated in its first "out of area" NATO mission as part of a UN-mandated peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the deployment, German soldiers joined other NATO member forces to provide security in the wake of the Bosnian War. The peacekeeping mission included more than 60,000 troops from NATO's member states and partners. Since the beginning of the NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, some 8,500 German soldiers have been deployed in the young country. In 1999, NATO launched an air assault against Serbian forces accused of carrying out a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanian separatists and their civilian supporters. Approximately 550 Bundeswehr troops are still stationed in Kosovo. In 2016, Germany deployed its combat support ship "Bonn" to lead a NATO mission backed by the EU in the Aegean Sea. The mission included conducting "reconnaissance, monitoring and surveillance of illegal crossings" in Greek and Turkish territorial waters at the height of the migration crisis. Germany, Greece and Turkey had requested assistance from the trans-Atlantic alliance. In 2003, Germany's parliament voted to send Bundeswehr troops to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Germany became the third-largest contributor of troops and led the Regional Command North. More than 50 German troops were killed during the mission. Nearly a thousand soldiers are still deployed in Afghanistan as part of Resolute Support. Forming part of NATO's "enhanced forward presence" in the Baltic states, 450 Bundeswehr soldiers have been deployed to Lithuania so far in 2017. The battalion-size battlegroups there are led by Germany, Canada, the UK and US to reinforce collective defense on the alliance's eastern flank. It forms the "biggest reinforcement of Alliance collective defence in a generation," according to NATO. The Bundeswehr is due to take over leadership of NATO's multinational Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) at the start of 2019. The rapid reaction force has been set up to counter potential Russian aggression on the alliance's eastern flank. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.