It was bound to go wrong - last week, at a conference on blockchain technology in the southern province of Hainan, the organizers had chosen Chairman Mao as their mascot. An actor dressed in a Mao suit and impersonating the late Chinese leader's Hunan accent explained the advantages of this new technology. State media were outraged, calling the impersonator's performance "shameful" and "disrespectful."  In China, the law prohibits the instrumentalization of a political leader, dead or alive, for commercial purposes. The organizers were forced to apologize. Some commentators think that the stunt could even incur lasting damage on blockchain technology in China. Yet, Mao himself might even have liked the technology, which at least in theory promotes equality of the masses like hardly any other invention. In simple terms, the blockchain is a decentralized database. Information is not stored on one server or by one company but distributed across many computers that gives access to all participants at all times. There is no central administrator for the chain blocks, which makes it less prone to corruption and falsification. In practical terms, the government approves of the decentralized system so long as it can monitor and control what is happening. DW's Frank Sieren So far, the best-known application for blockchain technology is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin. But in Beijing this has fallen into disrepute because it could be used to transfer money out of China, which has strict capital controls. Digital ledger for data The potential of blockchain technology, however, is not limited to financial transactions. It could be used to make the management of contracts, shares, official documents, copyrights, supply chains and even voting more transparent and efficient. A blockchain can be described as a digital ledger for data. As soon as a transaction between a sender and a recipient takes place, a new status quo is recorded. Each transaction is authorized by the participants in the respective data chain. Read more: Blockchain in energy transition: Hope or hype? If Tom transfers money to John, then hundreds of witnesses can confirm that the transaction really took place without having to know either Tom or John. The system is a little cumbersome but much less prone to fraud. Technology expert Axel Apfelbache once explained it thus: "It's the condom of the internet – enabling secure transactions between people who do not know each other without the intervention of a third party." But this analogy is somewhat absurd because the condom is a third party. But the point is that banks, credit card companies and stock exchanges, which are reliable mediators that come at a cost, could eventually become superfluous if the blockchain, which is free, is equally reliable. One day, the blockchain could also replace trading platforms as well as land registries, trade registers and notaries. Some predict that companies such as Uber or Airbnb will disappear because there will be more direct contact between providers and users. Who knows whether this really will happen? For China with its massive population, the technology is particularly interesting. Massive amounts of data can be managed de-centrally and securely at little cost, whether in terms of equipment or staff. The Chinese government will of course want to be able to keep a close eye on everything. Developers are still working on certain issues to make this possible. Right now, it is difficult to manage the rights that give permission to access data. Moreover, the information chains are getting longer, which does create transparency and combats corruption, but does not make it easier to deal with the huge quantities of data. Sense of excitement in 'Blockchain valley' The government prefers to focus on the strengths rather than the weaknesses. In a recent speech at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, President Xi Jinping said that blockchain technology was a groundbreaking development. Three years ago, blockchain technology was included in the 13th five-year plan setting out developments for 2016 to 2020. China's IT ministry wants to standardize application development. Only Australia is acting in a comparatively foresighted manner. In March of this year, it was announced that an "International Blockchain Investment Development Center" would be set up in China to set up future industrial standards. The same month, it transpired that the Bank of China had submitted a patent to solve the problem of storage without putting traceability and immutability at risk. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2iqr9 An industrial park to develop blockchain technology opened in the eastern city of Hangzhou in April, promoted by a $1.6 billion innovation fund. Thirty percent of the funds are from the local government. Young experts are being lured to "Blockchain Valley" with advantageous rents and research grants. China has collected some 400 patents connected to blockchain technology over the past two years – more than any other country. The US is behind with 110, while Australia is even farther behind with 40. Important Chinese companies, such as e-commerce firm JD.com, PC maker Lenovo or search engine Baidu, have also invested heavily in blockchain technology. The online insurance giant ZhongAn, which was set up by Alibaba founder Jack Ma, Tencent CEO Pony Ma and the chairman of Ping An Insurance, Ma Mingzhe, has also started working with over 100 hospitals so that blockchain technology can be used to securely process patient data. Chen Wei, head of ZhongAn's tech unit, recently said that blockchain technology could play a huge role in transforming China's insurance sector. Read more: Bitcoin's blockchain technology now employed to trade gold It can also be used in the development sector. The Bank of China recently announced that it would apply blockchain technology to combat poverty in the Himalayan province of Tibet. It will be used to make the distribution of funds more efficient. Zhang Shoucheng, professor of physics at Stanford University in the US and founder of venture capital company Danhua Capital said on CCTV that the world was entering a "new era" with blockchain technology. Dangers and opportunities What remains unclear is where the technology will establish itself fastest and in what areas it will pay off for investors. At the moment, most blockchain projects fail. In a recent report, the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology (CAICT) said that the average lifespan was about 15 months. Could this be a lot of hype about nothing? "The development of blockchain technology may become an important step for China to grasp international competition," Yu Kequn, director for the National Center for International Security Technology, recently said. "May." But unlike in Europe, in China people seem more prepared to be adventurous and take the risk, which is part of their culture. The Chinese word for crisis is made up of the words for danger and opportunity. Introduced in 2009, Bitcoin was the world's first decentralized digital currency. It quickly gained traction amid lingering uncertainty in the wake of financial crisis. Designed to be as rare as gold, Bitcoin was created to have a maximum of 21 million "coins." Initially worth just a fraction of a cent, by February 2011 the currency had gained parity with the US dollar, then it really took off. The name Satoshi Nakamoto is synonymous with Bitcoin. It is said to be the alias for an unknown IT whizz who invented the cryptocurrency. But despite claiming to be a 30-something Japanese national, it is generally thought that several computer science experts created the technology behind the digital coin. One rumor even suggested that Tesla chief Elon Musk is the real Satoshi, which he denied. Instead of being printed like dollars and euros, each Bitcoin is created on a global network of computers and verified by the system rather than a bank. There are no transaction fees. The smallest amount you can buy is a "Satoshi" or one-hundred-millionth of a Bitcoin. Purchases can be made anonymously and even at digital currency ATMs. When you buy Bitcoin, it is often stored in a digital wallet. To ensure that not too much Bitcoin comes into circulation, a process called mining was created where blocks of transactions could only be processed once a difficult math problem was solved by geeks. The puzzles are becoming so complex that bigger and bigger computers are being utilized to decipher them. That's led to concerns about the amount of electricity used to handle Bitcoin transactions. Due to its anonymous nature, Bitcoin's success is likely being fueled by organized crime, including money laundering and the purchase of illegal goods. The currency is also being targeted by cybercriminals. A recent hack blamed on North Korea forced a South Korean digital currency exchange into bankruptcy. Reports suggest the "Islamic State" armed group used Bitcoin to receive funds to buy arms. Bitcoin is the largest of all the cryptocurrencies and its incredible rise has spawned many imitators. Other large digital cash creators include Ethereum, Zcash, Bitcoin Cash, Ripple and Litecoin. As of November 2017, their number had swelled to 1,324. Hundreds of others have attempted and failed to launch their own digital coins. The market is now coming under increasing scrutiny by regulators. 2017 was a stratospheric year for Bitcoin. Worth close to $1,000 in January, some twelve months later it had scaled to an all-time high of $19,784. Despite much skepticism, the currency started to see serious interest from institutional investors. Two exchanges began Bitcoin futures trading, allowing speculators to punt on the incredible volatility in the value of the cryptocurrency. From central banks to respected investors, almost the entire financial establishment warned of a massive Bitcoin bubble, which they said can only end in disaster for holders of the digital currency. Among them was Nobel prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz who said Bitcoin "ought to be outlawed." Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase labeled those who buy the currency "stupid." Just before Christmas 2017, Bitcoin saw a dramatic rally, topping out at nearly $20,000 before losing a third of its value in just five days. More intense volatility followed early in the New Year, only to be reversed when it plummeted by almost half. Are we in for an even bigger rollercoaster ride if Wall Street adopts Bitcoin in 2018? Or could another coin usurp the original currency disrupter? Author: Nik Martin DW's Frank Sieren has lived in Beijing for over 20 years. 