German police set up a fake road accident on national road safety day to test the response of passing traffic, they said on Wednesday. Police in Oberhavel, in the eastern German state of Brandenburg, teamed up with a local media agency to stage a fake car accident complete with two victims. They wanted to see how many people would stop to help the two young ladies who were still in the vehicle. The actresses and the car itself were smeared in blood to make it seem more realistic. Seven hidden cameras were trained on the scene as police hid further up the road and pulled over cars that didn't stop to help. Police did not inform duped drivers who had stopped that it was fake until they were well into the process of helping. One helper even ended up in tears, according to the press release. One couple pulled over, called the 112 emergency number, and were comforting the young actresses, according to local newspaper Märkische Allgemeine. In another case, a motorcyclist desperately waved down two other road users, who then approached the car with a first aid kit and tried to help, the agency's video shows. Read more: 'Terrified' recumbent bike rider caught dashing down German motorway Berlin's inner-city AVUS is widely considered to be Germany's oldest autobahn. It was built between 1913 and 1921. Back then, it was only 10 km (6.2 miles) long. And because it was so short, many call the AVUS an autobahn prototype. The first "proper" autobahn in Germany went into operation on August 6, 1932, connecting Cologne and Bonn. Literally translated, the highway was officially called "vehicles-only road." Today, the stretch is part of the A555 autobahn. Historians make a point of emphasizing that the myth about Adolf Hitler commissioning the building of the first German autobahn is just that - a myth. The highway mentioned in the previous slide was a project initiated by the then lord mayor of Cologne, Konrad Adenauer. A look at national statistics around the globe reveals that Australia boasts the longest highway. Its National Highway (also known as Highway 1) spans the whole continent, having a total length of well over 14,000 km (8,700 miles). Germany for its part is known for one of the densest highway networks with a total length of roughly 13,000 km (8,077 miles). While this makes up only 6 percent of all long-distance roads in the country, almost a third of total road traffic depends on it. German Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt hopes the introduction of a passenger car toll for highways in Germany will wash around 500 million euros ($535 million) into state coffers annually. Opponents argue that's a myth, citing enormous infrastructure costs to collect the toll. Author: Hardy Graupner How many people stopped Police said they were shocked that 90 percent of passing traffic did not stop. Police said they had expected at least half to help. Police Commissioner Robert Müller said: "Many drivers could not explain why they hadn't stopped and helped," as quoted by Märkische Allgemeine. He said conversations with drivers revealed almost everyone knew how important first aid measures are after an accident, but that drivers nonetheless drove on. Excuses reportedly included not being able to brake fast enough and wanting to stop at the next opportunity. Police criticized A legal expert in the Bundestag, Michael Frieser of the conservative Bavarian Christian Social Union criticized the faked accident in comments to the national paper Bild. "If the police carry out such actions, they should always do so together with traffic clubs such as the ADAC or the ACE. Because this form of road safety education cannot be their job," he said. But police defended the action as necessary. "Public relations are a very important aspect in raising people's awareness of such situations and explaining how to act correctly in an emergency," Andre Quade, who headed the local police team on that day, told the local paper. "If you want to reach people, you have to show reality. And reality is actually even harder. The number of accidents is constantly increasing. Not only in Brandenburg, but also in other federal states," a police spokesperson told Bild. In Germany, people are legally obliged to stop and help in such cases. People who do not render assistance to those in need face one year in prison or a fine. The only European country without a general speed limit on the most part of its highways, Germany has an excellent system of motorways. They are generally well-maintained, inviting you to explore them. The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license used with a legal guardian present in Germany is 17. An unrestricted car driver's license can be granted at age 18. According to statistics by ADAC, Germany's national automobile association, traffic jams increased by around 15 percent in 2016 as compared to the previous year. That's a lot for a relatively small country. The increase resulted from both more cars on the highway, and more construction sites. So brace yourself for more time and stress in the car, especially around big cities. Even when think you're soaring down the autobahn, you may get the distinct impression it's still not fast enough. Some German drivers may drive right up behind you and try to "push" you over. They may even flash their headlights to rattle your nerves. You aren't supposed to block the "fast" lane — the aim being to only use it for passing. But don't let pushy drivers bully you! Watch out for speed cameras! They are used widely in Germany, from the autobahn to inner city areas. These box-shaped devices are installed next to the road, and will often catch you unawares. Should you be driving over the speed limit, a ticket will be sent to your house, complete with a picture of you at the wheel and the license plate confirming your offense. Holding a cell phone in your hand while driving is an absolute no-no. If caught, you could be fined 100 euros ($124) and get a one-point penalty against your driver's license. Penalties spike up if you cause an accident, and you may have your license revoked. Fines were raised in 2017. Investing in a hands-free car kit is smarter. Penalties also apply to bicyclists using their cell phones. The same thing goes for not making way for emergency vehicles. Once traffic jams up, you are required to create a lane for ambulances and police, even before you see the flashing lights behind you. If not, you could be fined at least 200 euros (around $250) and get points on your license. The emergency lane is always between the far left and the rest of the lanes. You are also required to set up a warning signal should you break down or have an accident. This means placing an orange metal triangle on the road, donning a fluorescent jacket, both of which you must have in your car. You must also have a first-aid kit stored in your vehicle. In Germany, there's zero tolerance for beginners, as well as for professional drivers. There's a 0.5 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) limit to driving under the influence. Bicyclists may not exceed 1.6 percent. Penalties start at a €500 ($623) fine, points off your license and even a one-month license suspension. Best bet: don't drink and drive! Snow tires are required once streets become slick with slush, ice or snow. In Germany, the rule of thumb is that this can occur anytime between October and Easter. Should you not have snow tires installed on your car and still drive on slippery streets, you could be fined and have points taken off your license. Without proper snow tires, your insurance may also not cover an accident. To navigate both the German autobahn and city streets, the best approach is a zen one: take your time and don't let yourself get frazzled. Besides, with an expansive train and public transportation system in the country, you might not even want to hop into your car, but board a train and put up your feet! Author: Louisa Schaefer