Eunice Gayson has died at the age of 90. The official James Bond Twitter account confirmed the news on Saturday: The James Bond franchise's producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli wrote, "Our sincere thoughts are with her family." Gayson was set to play Miss Moneypenny, but that part went to Lois Maxwell instead. But she is the only Bond girl to have featured in two films, also appearing in the 1963 film "From Russia with Love," also with Sean Connery. Speaking in 2012, Gayson said that getting Connery to deliver the famous line "Bond, James Bond" in response to her introduction of her own character as "Trench, Sylvia Trench" took some tutoring. "I'd known Sean for years and I'd never seen him so nervous as he was on that day because of all these delays," Gayson said. The film's director told her to take Connery out for a drink, which she did, bringing back a relaxed actor easily able to deliver the line. From London to Jamaica for 'Dr. No' Gayson was born in Croydon, south of London, in 1931. Her own voice was never heard in the Bond films. She had performed the role of the Baroness in the stage production of "The Sound of Music," and appeared in the Hammer Horror 1958 "Revenge of Frankenstein" film. However, her lines in "Dr. No" were voiced over by Berlin-born actress Nikki van der Zyl, who still works, aged 83, as an artist, poet, and public speaker. While Gayson's character was intended to return for later films, the director of "Goldfinger," Guy Hamilton, decided against the idea. Her daughter appeared in a casino scene in "GoldenEye," the 1995 Bond film. Gayson played other roles, such as in the British secret agent TV series "The Avengers" in the 1960s, and wrote her autobiography in 2012. James Bond veteran Daniel Craig is sticking around after all. His deep steel-blue eyes arm him with an amazing charisma which goes way beyond classic beauty. Like no other, he has injected coolness and a tortured soul to the character. After a long wait, he finally revealed his 007 reprise this week. As soon as reports started spreading that Daniel Craig - who played Bond for the fourth time in the new movie "Spectre" in 2015 - wanted out, everyone started speculating on who would become the next 007. People even started betting on it: "Homeland" star Damian Lewis was among bookmakers' current favorites. His ginger hair would have worked with the fact that James Bond is originally Scottish. Best known for his iconic depictions of drug lord Stringer Bell in the TV series "The Wire" and detective John Luther in "Luther," this charismatic Golden Globe-award winner knows how to handle a gun. He is one of the sexiest men alive, and many have said the world is definitely ready for the first black James Bond - especially a perfect one like him. Wanted: a new James Bond. Last year on Twitter, Gillian Anderson brought Dana Scully of "The X-Files" fame into the mix. But is the world ready for Ms. Bond? Even if she's unsuccessful in nabbing the role of the famous British spy after Craig, Anderson could make a worthy Bond girl. In the 2015 "Spectre," Monica Bellucci showed that mature women are just as suitable in the role. Rumors also started spreading his name as the next 007 successor, and even if the sexy ex-soccer star denied them, some fans held out hope. Isn't he the real-life James Bond already? The British model looks smart in a tuxedo (and in underwear) and knows how to shoot and score - in soccer, at least. There's only one question left: Can he act? The British pop star already demonstrated his deep affection for James Bond in 1998 with his song, "Millennium." In the video, Williams parodied 007, dressed in a tuxedo, driving an Aston Martin, surrounded by beautiful women in fluffy negligees. The singer has since matured, and his gray streaks make him extremely sexy. A Bond who can sing might prove useful, too. Could there ever be a German-Turkish Bond? Mehmet Kurtulus was born in Turkey but grew up in Germany. He starred in and co-produced the award-winning film "Head On" by Fatih Akin and is best known in Germany for his depiction of undercover Hamburg investigator in the cult German crime series, "Tatort." He's an experienced secret agent - plus he has the looks. Halle Berry has more James Bond experience than most, as she teamed up with Pierce Brosnan in "Die Another Day" in 2002. In the film, she bewitched everyone by emerging from the sea in an amazing bikini, paying homage to the great Bond girl Ursula Andress from "Dr. No" (1962). Berry has demonstrated on several occasions that she can quickly jump into action and work a weapon. This guy has gotten a lot of major roles recently. That might end if Michael Fassbender ever became James Bond. Many of the former actors who played the role of 007 decided to stop for this reason. We want to keep seeing this versatile actor slip into so many different characters, whether as the action hero Magneto, Macbeth or Steve Jobs. It's a shame that this Oscar-winning actor already played the role of the villain in the 2015 007 installment, "Spectre." Christoph Waltz actually has all the requirements to make a great Bond: good looks, charisma and experience. Smart and slick, he can hold a weapon, looks dazzling in a tuxedo - and he speaks British English like no other Austrian. He was another favorite among bookies. From "Black Hawk Down" to "Mad Max," Hardy has starred in all kinds of action films, and even in a Cold War espionage movie, "Tinker Tailor Solider Spy," so he's got enough experience for the role. He's got style, too - "GQ" named him one of the best dressed British men in 2015 and he was on MTV's list of sexiest men alive. Enough said. Author: Silke Wünsch / eg, cmk jm/kms (dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.