Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) on Sunday signed a controversial deal that could finally resolve a long-running dispute over the latter's name. Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias and his FYROM counterpart Nikola Dimitrov signed the deal, which will see FYROM renamed as the Republic of North Macedonia, in the border region of Prespes. The signing ceremony was attended by the prime ministers of Greece and FYROM, Zoran Zaev and Alexis Tsipras (pictured above center with Dimitrov, left, and Kotzias, right). The deal, which has been protested by hardliners on both sides of the border, must now be ratified by the respective parliaments, and will also be put to a referendum in Macedonia. The process will take months. Greek protesters opposed to the deal clashed with riot police some kilometers (miles) away from the ceremony while it was going on. Officers used stun grenades and tear gas to beat back the crowd of some 500 people. Read more: Macedonian President Ivanov says he won't sign 'disastrous' name deal with Greece Greek nationalists protested again against the deal on Sunday  'Historic and necessary' At the ceremony, Tsipras described the signing as a "brave, historic and necessary step for our peoples." "We are here to heal the wounds of time, to open a path for peace, fraternization and growth for our countries, the Balkans and Europe," he said, adding that the time had come again "to sing happy songs in the Balkans." Zaev called on the two countries to "step out of the past and look to the future," saying: "Our peoples want peace ... we will be partners and allies." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zSwC Historical dispute The naming row between the two countries began 27 years ago when FYROM declared independence from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but has roots going back to antiquity. Athens objected to its neighbor being called Macedonia because it has a northern province of the same name where the king Alexander the Great was born, a figure who represents a source of pride for many Greeks of the present day. Critics of the deal in Greece say the name change could imply territorial claims on the Greek province and usurp ancient Greek culture and civilization. Opposition to the deal led to a no-confidence motion in parliament, with Tsipras surviving the vote on Saturday. Nationalists in Macedonia, for their part, assert their country's right to bear the name without change. The deal also means that Greece will lift its objections to the renamed nation joining the EU and NATO. Read more: Macedonia: What's in a name? tj/jlw (Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.