The Foreign Office appraisal made public Sunday by German news outlets said Afghanistan remained in a "tough establishment phase and, as before, in a volatile security situation" after decades of armed conflict. Seizing on its wording, ProAsyl [Pro Asylum] said Germany's BAMF migration agency must re-examine tens of thousands of bids from Afghans previously rejected on the grounds that on return home they would find safety in alternative areas. Bavaria's Christian Social Union (CSU) — girding for a state election in October — on Sunday demanded a review of German policy since 2016 of expelling only those Afghans classified as offenders or as dangerous, or those who persistently hide their identities. Contacts key to finding safety So-called fallback options for discriminated, threatened or persecuted persons seeking safe places depended centrally on whether they had social contacts at the local level, on their ethnicity, and on their financial situation, said the situation report distributed internally to German authorities last Thursday. Read more: Report: 12,500 Afghans facing deportation For women, the report said, it was hardly possible to switch to other regions without family connections. Without ethnic links, finding jobs was difficult in cities. And the capacity of bigger centers to absorb returnees was complicated by the return of Afghans from Iran and Pakistan and those internally displaced, said the report. Safe areas exist, claims CSU CSU General Secretary Markus Blume insisted Sunday that Afghanistan still had "stable regions" into which "rejected asylum applicants could be returned." "We cannot talk repeatedly about more expulsions but then set the hurdles so high that these are not possible," Blume told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper. Afghanistan needed "persons to work on its reconstruction," Blume asserted as Afghanistan approaches fresh elections. Halt expulsions completely, urges ProAsyl Günter Burkhardt, the executive director of ProAsyl – a Frankfurt-based asylum advocacy network backed by churches, civic groups and unions – demanded that Germany halt its expulsions to Afghanistan completely. "On the basis of this new [Foreign Office] appraisal we must assume that both the rejected applications as well as the decisions to expel were groundless," Burkhardt said. The so-called alternative locations were essentially a mirage, he added. Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams "Great caution has to be exercised because of Afghanistan's unstable situation," said Ralf Stegner, a deputy leader of Germany's Social Democrats (SPD), which forms part of Chancellor Angela Merkel's Cabinet that also includes the Bavarian CSU. 'Extremely dangerous' Joachim Stamp, deputy premier of Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) state and a member of the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), slammed the CSU foray: The situation in Afghanistan was "extremely dangerous," Stamp told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper. Although offenders could be sent back to some regions, Stamp said, "we cannot send families with children back to Afghanistan in the foreseeable future." Children denied education Sunday's debate in Germany coincided with a joint report released Sunday by Afghan Education Minister Mirwais Balkhi stating that 3.7 million Afghan children - almost half of all those aged between 7 and 17 - had no access to education. Of these, 2.7 million were girls, and in some regions, 85 percent of girls did not attend school,  said the study from UNICEF, USAID and the Samuel Hall research institute. ipj/rc (dpa, AFP, Reuters)