Drawings of an Australasian cockatoo found in the pages of a 13th-century European manuscript on falcons suggest trade in Australia was booming as far back as medieval times, researchers said Tuesday. Four images of the white cockatoo were discovered in Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II of Sicily's De Arte Venandi cum Avibus (The Art of Hunting with Birds), which is dated between 1241 and 1248 and is held in the Vatican library. Read more: United in noise: How species deal with our racket The colored drawings are 250 years older than what was previously believed to be the oldest European depiction of the bird, in Andrea Mantegna's 1496 altarpiece "Madonna della Vittoria." The Latin text next to one of the images revealed the cockatoo was a gift from the fourth Ayyubid sultan of Egypt to Frederick II, who referred to him as the "Sultan of Babylon." The cockatoo would have taken a several-year journey from Australasia to Cairo and then on to Sicily. Three scholars at the Finnish Institute in Rome were working on De Arte Venandi cum Avibus when they stumbled across the images. They had seen a 2014 article by Heather Dalton, an honorary research fellow at the University of Melbourne, about the cockatoo featured in "Madonna della Vittoria," and so the four began a collaboration to identify the type of cockatoo. Read more: The albatross: A bird built to soar After examining the shape of the crest and the coloring of the cockatoo in Frederick II's manuscript, the researchers concluded it was likely to have been either a female Triton or one of three sub-species of the Yellow-crested Cockatoo. This means that the cockatoo gifted to Frederick II was taken either from the northernmost tip of what is now Australia's mainland, or New Guinea, or the islands off New Guinea or Indonesia. Meet the bar-tailed godwit: Breeding primarily on Arctic coasts, and the Scandinavian and Siberian tundra, this wading species spends the winter in Australia and New Zealand. In 2007, a tagged bird was recorded as having flown 11,600 kilometers (7200 miles), from Western Alaska to New Zealand, in a single nine-day stretch. That probably makes it the record-holder for non-stop flight. Named for the bright red plumage under its beak, the ruby-throated hummingbird can grow up to 9 centimeters (3.5 inches) and weigh as little as 3 grams. But don't let the bird's small stature fool you, it still gets around. During migration, some specimens fly 900 miles non-stop across the Gulf of Mexico to their breeding grounds in the Eastern United States. Belonging to the stork species, the greater adjutant owes its name to its gait — which is said to resemble that of a military officer. But the adjutant doesn't command much land anymore. It's listed as endangered, and is only found in two breeding colonies in India and Cambodia. Outside of the breeding season, it visits neighboring countries across Southeast Asia. An invasion of sooty shearwater birds in California in 1961 was the inspiration for Hitchcock's famous thriller "The Birds," which came out two years later. In real life, the birds are more awe-inspiring than scary. Crossing the Pacific and Atlantic, up coasts in spring and down in autumn, they clock up to 14,000-kilometer journeys. Oh, and they can also dive down to more than 60 meters. Dunlins are small waders, and breed in Arctic regions. While those from Northern Europe and Asia fly as far as Africa for the winter break, their Alaskan and Canadian counterparts prefer the much closer North American coasts. Their characteristic mechanical way of picking at food has earned them their nickname. Arctic terns have developed the ultimate strategy to evade winter: They breed in the Arctic during the northern summer, then travel to the shores of Antarctica, racking up 80,000 kilometers of travel or more per year in the process. That means they see two summers. But winters? Zero. Every year. Critically endangered, the northern bald ibis is now only found in southern Morocco. It used to migrate across Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. Revered by the ancient Egyptians and said to have been the first bird to be released from Noah's Ark, Turkish pilgrims also looked to them for guidance on their way to Mecca. Spiritual appreciation hasn't helped stem its decline. The northern wheatear has nothing to do with wheat or ears but it does make one of the longest migrations of any small bird. It passes over oceans, snow and desert during its spring journey from Sub-Saharan Africa to the Northern Hemisphere. There, the birds occupy an area stretching from Central Asia to Europe and Alaska. Trackers have shown they can travel 290 kilometers a day on average. The common crane is a common appearance in the north of Europe and Asia, where it breeds typically in moors and wetlands. For its winter vacation, it commonly migrates to North and East Africa, as well as to Israel and parts of Iran. Anything but boring, the ruddy turnstone's plumage features a harlequin-like pattern during summer when it breeds in the Arctic Tundra of Europe, Asia and North America. As temperatures drop, the small wader changes into its brown winter coat and migrates south on coastlines around the world. These ducks had made it across the Mediterranean from North Africa only to be shot on arrival at this beach in Albania. Every year, hunters kill many millions of migratory birds across the Mediterranean — for food or money, or, most controversially, sport. Author: Ranty Islam, Jennifer Collins Australia part of flourishing trade network Dalton pieced together the route the cockatoo would have taken to reach Frederick II - from Australasia to Cairo and then on to Sicily, which would have been primarily overland and taken several years. The discovery of the images in Frederick II's manuscript showed "Australia was part of a flourishing trade network that reached west to the Middle East and beyond," Dalton wrote. "Although our part of the world is still considered the very last to have been discovered, this Eurocentric view is increasingly being challenged by finds such as this," she said. "Small craft sailed between islands buying and selling fabrics, animal skins and live animals before making for ports in places such as Java, where they sold their wares to Chinese, Arab and Persian merchants. Boasting an unusually long life span, sometimes stretching as high as 100 years, cockatoos would have been better suited than many creatures to long-distance live transportation. The first documented landing by a European in the country was in 1606, according to the National Library of Australia. Vultures usually don't travel long distances, instead, they rise to expand their field of vision. Their excellent eyesight allows the critically endangered species to scan the landscape below from a relatively static aerial position. The Common crane is a long distance migrant. Important staging areas exist anywhere from Sweden and Germany to China. The height stated here was recorded above the Himalayas. The birds also fly over the peaks of the Himalayas on their migratory path. Studies have found that they breathe more deeply and efficiently under low oxygen conditions. The Whooper swan is the Eurasian counterpart of the North American trumpeter swan. It's also the national bird of Finland, featured on the country's 1 euro coin. These birds are able to breed in high mountain areas because their eggs have less pores than those of lowland species and don't try out as quickly. The bird's embryos also seem to be genetically predisposed to absorbing particularly large amounts of oxygen. Bearded vultures are listed as 'near threatened' by the IUCN. And you had better not hunt them, because according to Iranian mythology the birds are a symbol of luck and happiness. Whoever shoots one is supposed to die within forty days. It was just discovered that these duck-like waterfowls are among the world's highest flying birds. Like many others on this list, they cross the Himalayas to get to their breeding grounds. Author: Klaus Esterluss