British Home Secretary Sajid Javid granted the use of cannabis oil for 12-year-old Billy Caldwell on Saturday as the epileptic boy was facing a "medical emergency." Caldwell's condition deteriorated after customs officers in London confiscated cannabis oil used for his treatment on Monday, as the boy and his mother were returning home from Canada. He was hospitalized due to heavy seizures on Friday. Javid said he had used "an exceptional power as home secretary" to bypass the ban on the cannabis-based medication. UK officially views cannabis, which is also the active ingredient in marijuana, as a drug with no therapeutic value. Read more: Germany court stops tendering process for medical marijuana Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1F0UU The Caldwells' family doctor had been treating the 12-year-old with cannabis oil in the UK for more than a year. However, the UK Home Office recently ordered the doctor stop prescribing the substance. The move prompted Billy's mother Charlotte Caldwell to take the boy to Canada and obtain the medication there. After their supplies were seized at the airport, the youth was left without treatment and his condition deteriorated. Read more: Police discover cannabis factory in former nuclear bunker Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2otp3 Adressing the reporters outside Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, where her son was bein treated, Charlotte Caldwell asked for the UK laws on cannabis to change. "No other family should have to go through this sort of ordeal, travelling halfway around the world to get medication which should be freely available to our desperately ill children," she said. "This is a wake-up call for our country," Caldwell added. "I hope the government reflects upon what happened and what they've put our family through these last few days." dj/rc (Reuters, AP) 