A French NGO's rescue ship, the Aquarius, was waiting for a port to dock at on Monday as a diplomatic standoff played out over where it should go next. On Sunday, Italy had refused to allow the vessel to dock in its ports, demanding that Malta should take it in. Malta refused, and when Italy instructed the ship to stay at sea, Malta accused Italy of violating international norms. The French organization SOS Mediterranee said the ship was carrying 629 migrants picked up in the Mediterranean on Saturday, including 123 unaccompanied minors and seven pregnant women. Among those on board are 400 migrants rescued by the Italian navy and merchant vessels before being transferred to the Aquarius. Read more: Italy's rising populism leaves refugee aid workers worried over immigration reform "Saving lives at sea is a duty, but transforming Italy into an enormous refugee camp is not," Italy's Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said on Facebook on Monday. "Italy is done bowing its head and obeying. This time there's someone saying no." Salvini, head of the right-wing, anti-immigrant League party, had promised during his election campaign to stop to the mass influx of migrants from Africa. Appeals to Italy and Malta Germany called on Italy and Malta to "meet their humanitarian responsibilities" as both nations refused to allow the Aquarius to dock. "…I can say that we are concerned about the situation of the people on this ship," said German government spokesman Steffan Seibert. "The priority of both the Italian and Maltese authorities should be ensuring these people receive the care they need," said European Commission spokesman Margaritis Schinas. "We call on all involved to contribute to a swift resolution so that the people on board the Aquarius vessel may be safely disembarked as soon as possible." The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) appealed to concerned governments on Monday to allow the immediate disembarkation of hundreds of people on board the Aquarius. "People are in distress, are running out of provisions and need help quickly," UNHCR's Vincent Cochetel said in a statement. He added that "broader issues" such as sharing responsibilities "should be looked at later." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qXLf Migrant 'taxis' More than 600,000 mostly African migrants have reached Italy by boat from Libya in the past five years. Right-wing politicians have accused charity boats operating off the coast of Libya of operating as "taxis" for migrants. The migrant influx has led to a populist backlash, with Salvini vowing to prevent Italy from becoming the "refugee camp of Europe." On Friday, he suggested NATO intervene to protect Italy, saying the country is "under attack from the south." SOS Mediterranee said late Sunday that it had received instructions from Italian authorities to hold position between Malta and Italy after previously heading north. "Our only objective is the disembarkation in a port of safety of the people that we rescued yesterday in difficult conditions," it said, adding that it "took good note" of the Italian Interior Ministry's statements. It will be difficult for Italy to refuse the Aquarius a safe port to dock, as the Italian Coast Guard helped coordinated the rescues. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw, cw/amp (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)