Nearly two-thirds of the Turkish community in Germany cast votes for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Sunday's election, far more than the support he averaged in Turkey, according to initial results. Erdogan supporters waving Turkish flags and chanting slogans reportedly took to the streets in multiple Germany cities to celebrate after the authoritarian ruler claimed victory in the election on Sunday night. In Berlin, hundreds of Erdogan supporters celebrated in Breitscheidplatz and honking motorcades cruised down Kurfürstendamm avenue. Calls of "Recep Erdogan, our leader" could be heard, local media reported. German lawmaker and former Greens party co-leader Cem Özdemir, who is of Turkish origin, criticized celebrations in the streets of Berlin. Read more: Ankara mayor slams German Green party leader for 'treachery' "Let's face it: The celebrating German-Turkish Erdogan supporters not only celebrate their autocrat, but also express their rejection of our liberal democracy. Like the AfD. We must worry about this," he wrote on Twitter, referring to the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD). In Dortmund, a journalist shared a video of Erdogan supporters with Turkish flags shouting "Allahu Akbar" (God is Great) and slogans against the Kurdish militant group PKK. Marco Bülow, a member of the Bundestag for Dortmund with the Social Democrats, wrote on Twitter: "Sorry, but that makes me sick." In the western city of Cologne, numerous Erdogan supporters in a motorcade traveled along the Hohenzollernring waving Turkish flags and shooting fireworks. The police temporarily closed the road and recorded several legal infractions, the Kölner Stadt-Anzeiger newspaper reported. Erdogan supporters in Hamburg drive in a motorcade celebrating his presidential victory on Sunday. Erdogan more succesful in Germany than in Turkey Read more: Why many Turks in Germany voted 'yes' in Erdogan's referendum Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/30DGN Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 