German writers and scholars Aleida and Jan Assmann are the latest recipients of the €25,000 ($29,500) Peace Prize of the German Book Trade, it was announced in Berlin on Tuesday. A literary and cultural studies scholar, Aleida Assmann "has displayed an unfaltering commitment to investigating the virulent and perennial themes of historical amnesia and memory culture," said the peace prize jury in a statement. "Time and again, her work has illustrated that an open and honest handling of the past is an essential precondition for peaceful coexistence." A recent publication in her large and celebrated body of work is the 2016 title, Shadows of Trauma. Memory and Politics of Postwar Identity. Jan Assman, Aleida's husband, is meanwhile an Egyptologist and cultural studies scholar who has "launched international debates on fundamental questions relating to the cultural and religious conflicts of our time," the jury said of works including his seminal 1997 publication, Moses the Egyptian: The Memory of Egypt in Western Monotheism. Aleida Assmann has devoted her life's work to promoting peace through historical memory "His extensive scientific work has examined the relationship between religion and violence, the genesis of intolerance and the claim to absolute truth, all of which have made an indispensable contribution to our understanding of the willingness and capacity for peace held by religions in today's global society," the jury statement added. The jury further commented on the couple's "exhilarating and mutually enhancing unity," throughout their scholarly collaborations, which was also recognized last year when Aleida and Jan Assmann together won the 2017 Balzan Prize for Collective Memory for their "shared, inter- and transdisciplinary elaboration of the concept of cultural memory." Other prizes the couple have won in unison include the 2017 Karl Jaspers Prize. Read more: Nobel Prize in literature will not be awarded in 2018: Swedish Academy 'Peace, humanity and understanding' The German Publishers and Booksellers Association has gifted the Peace Prize — which is comprised entirely of donations from booksellers and publishers — annually to those who uphold the German book trade's commitment "to peace, humanity and understanding among all peoples and nations of the world," while the  winners "are chosen without any reference to their national, racial or religious background." 2017 Peace Prize winner Margaret Atwood speaks after accepting her award In 2017, Canadian author Margaret Atwood, known for novels including the dystopian classic The Handmaid's Tale, now a major TV series, was awarded the prize for her "political intuition and clairvoyance when it comes to dangerous underlying trends and currents." The 2016 recipient of the prestigious prize was German journalist and author Carolin Emcke, who has written and reported widely from war zones and crisis regions. The 2018 award ceremony will take place on Sunday, October 14, 2018, the final day of the Frankfurt Book Fair, at the Church of St. Paul in Frankfurt am Main — the site where the Frankfurt National Assembly was formed in 1848 at the height of the democratic revolutions. Until this year, the Swedish Academy's 18 members technically held the position for life. That changed when three group members stepped down in protest against the Academy membership of poet Katarina Frostenson, whose husband is accused of sexual harassment. Academy secretary Sara Danius (photo) and Frostenson also left shortly afterwards, leading to the decision to postpone the 2018 award. While the famous author of "The Satanic Verses" never won the Nobel Prize in Literature, some members of the Swedish Academy felt their organization should denounce Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's fatwa calling for Salman Rushdie's assassination in 1989. The Academy refused to do so, and three members resigned in protest. He became the first singer-songwriter to obtain the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2016, shocking quite a few literature purists. Then Dylan didn't even seem that interested by the recognition. He didn't show up at the awards ceremony and simply sent a brief thank-you speech instead of the traditional Nobel lecture. He finally collected his prize in Stockholm in March 2017. Thomas Mann received the prize in 1929, but it wasn't for his most recent work, "The Magic Mountain" (1924), which the jury found too tedious. The distinction instead recognized his debut novel, "Buddenbrooks" — published 28 years earlier. Time had apparently added to its value. The jury said, it "has won steadily increased recognition as one of the classic works of contemporary literature." When she was honored with the prize in 2004, Austrian author Elfriede Jelinek also refused to go to the awards ceremony. "I cannot manage being in a crowd of people. I cannot stand public attention," the reclusive playwright said. The Swedish Academy had to accept her agoraphobia, but she did, at least, hold her Nobel lecture — per video. The Soviet author, world famous for his novel "Doctor Zhivago," obtained Nobel recognition in 1958. However, Soviet authorities forced him to decline the prize; he wouldn't be able to re-enter the country if he went to the Stockholm ceremony. Even though he followed his government's orders, he was still demonized afterwards. His son picked up the award in 1989, 29 years after the author's death. When Italian comedian and playwright Dario Fo won the prize in 1997, the announcement came as a shock to many literary critics, who saw him as just an entertainer and not real literary figure with an international standing." The satirist fired back with his Nobel speech, which he titled "Against jesters who defame and insult." Although British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1945, he actually obtained the award for his written works — mostly memoirs, history volumes and speeches — in 1953. The jury praised "his mastery of historical and biographical description as well as for brilliant oratory in defending exalted human values." The French philosopher and playwright was awarded the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature, but he declined it, saying that "a writer should not allow himself to be turned into an institution" by accepting official honors. It was rumored that he later asked for the prize money anyway — but that story was never confirmed. Winning the award in 1907 at the age of 41, British author Joseph Rudyard Kipling, best known for "The Jungle Book" (1894), remains the youngest Nobel laureate in literature to this day. However, his legacy has since been marred by the fact that Kipling, who spent his early childhood and some of his adult life in India, vehemently spoke out in defense of British colonialism. Author: Silke Wünsch (eg)