Activists gathered in front of the White House on Saturday to make their point against the immigration policies which have led to the separation of famlies from their children. The president is not in Washington over the weekend but thousands braced the heat to protest the policy. Senator Elizabeth Warren called for swift reunification of children and parents at a Massachusetts rally: "This is about children held in cages," she said, "This is about mamas who want their children back." Sweltering 86-degree-Fahrenheit (30 degrees Celsius) temperatures did not deter protesters in New York City on Saturday morning. Shouts of  "shame" met the names of people and government agencies responsible for the government's recent attempt to separate children from their parents as they had crossed the US-Mexican border. Protesters blamed President Donald Trump, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and two government agencies: the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Customs and Border Protection (CBP). One of the many detention centers for migrants, this one in Tornillo, Texas ICE in particular has provoked public outrage for its active role in physically separating parents from their children. There are growing calls among Democrats to defund and disband the agency; a move Trump has vowed to block. Some 700 demonstrations were planned across the US Saturday. DW's Michael Knigge met with Krzystof Sadlej from New York City who emigrated with his family from Poland when he was a boy, under the diversity visa program that Trump wants to abolish. "I am an American now and this is not what our country stands for," Sadlej said.. "Separating children and families causes irreperable harm." They are not confined to traditionally liberal bastions such as the big cities of New York and Los Angeles but are also being held in deeply conservative areas such as Appalachia and Wyoming. At least 50,000 are expected in Washington, DC. Support surges for immigrants Demonstrators in Dallas, Texas gathered outside city hall carrying an array of protest banners. One sign read: "Compassion not cruelty" while another simply said: "Vote" Another sign warned, "November is coming," referring to the mid-term elections in which all 435 seats in the House of Representatives, and a third-of the seats in the US Senate, are up for grabs. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/301fo Protest organizer Michelle Wentz said opposition to Trump's immigration policy seemed to cross political party lines. She called Trump's "zero-tolerance" policy "barbaric and inhumane." That practise calls for breaking up families upon entry into the US by arresting parents and taking their children away. More than 2,000 children were taken from their parents in May and June before Trump signed an executive order ending the practice amid a storm of domestic and international protests. Advocates have been overwhelmed by support for the immigrants, and say the issue is gaining support among people not usually connected to immigration, according to Jess Morales Rocketto, political director at the National Domestic Workers Alliance. It represents nannies, housekeepers and caregivers, many of whom are immigrants. "Honestly, I am blown away. I have literally never seen Americans show up for immigrants like this," Morales Rocketto said. "We just kept hearing over and over again, if it was my child, I would want someone to do something." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/305ww bik/jm (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.