"Visionary, Spokesperson. Public relations manager." These are what Joachim Löw sees as the prime roles of a national team coach. And he should know, he's been doing the job for 12 years now. That's nearly as long as Angela Merkel has been Germany's chancellor, which feels like an eternity. Löw and his V-neck sweater have been around for so long that most Germans probably can't imagine an international football tournament without him, nor would they want to. And he has already signed a contract extension, which will keep him in the post through the end of the 2022 World Cup. Read more: 100 things to know ahead of the 2018 World Cup in Russia Why would he do that? Afterall, his list of achievements and honors is long. Löw is the coach of the World Cup champions, he has been awarded Germany's Federal Cross of Merit, he has been named FIFA Coach of the Year and his hometown (Schönau) has even named the local stadium after him. So what motivates him to carry on as coach of the national team when he has so much more to lose than to gain at the World Cup in Russia? Joachim Löw and his biggest triumph (so far) 'Great potential in the team' "The 2014 World Cup was a highlight for us all, but it was no the end of the story," the 58-year-old said recently. One triumph is not enough for the Germany coach. He is aiming to do something that no country apart from Italy (in 1938) and Brazil (1962) has done before: to defend a World Cup title. "Maintaining the highest level (of performance) requires a tremendous amount of effort," Löw told DW. "When you have a lot of success... you can sometimes lose the hunger, and that can play into the hands of others who are also ambitious and want to knock you off your pedestal. So the most difficult thing is to maintain this high level without falling off." Löw believes in his squad, which he thinks has more talent than any other previous Germany team. "I still see great potential in this team. It is still enjoy working with and further developing these players." Read more:Are Russia's soccer fans dangerous? The national team's general manager, Oliver Bierhoff, goalie coach Andy Köpke, assistant coach Thomas Schneider and Joachim Löw Löw also appreciates being in the position of being a popular national team coach, who isn't subject to the weekly pressure to deliver results that club coaches are. Apart from just before and during a European championship or a World Cup, Löw can work in peace and without much pressure from above, and he can focus on what he does best; developing mid- and long-term ideas, concepts and philosophies of play, as well as studying and analyzing upcoming opponents and general developments in football. 'We sometimes think about crazy things' "We are always looking to be trendsetters, so we are always looking towards the future," Löw said. "We are visionaries in a way and sometimes we come up with completely crazy things. Even if they may seem absurd, we look to try them out at some point." Could we see some crazy ideas at the World Cup in Russia?  Fans all over the world are wondering just how Germany will do, since the team's performances in it's last six internationals were anything but convincing. Prior to Friday's 2-1 victory over Saudi Arabia, Germany had lost to Austria and Brazil, after having played to draws against England, France and Spain - the last four of which are fellow contenders for the World Cup title. However, all this is no reason for worry, since Germany are a completely different team when it comes to major tournaments,  a team capable of delivering when it matters. Sometimes it can all come down to luck Löw prepared intensively for this World Cup for at least the past two years, and he believes that success should be left to as little chance as possible. "There is no success without planning," he said. "Clearly defined goals and consistent application can take you far." That doesn't mean that Germany fans shouldn't be crossing their fingers, though. "At the end of the day situations can still arise in which things come down to luck," Löw said. Will Germany's best goalkeeper be fit enough to play? Even though Neuer missed most of the season with injury issues, Joachim Löw has brought his captain along in the hope that he recovers.   International games: 74 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The Barcelona goalkeeper has been Löw's go-to option with Neuer on the shelf. With Germany's captain back in the fold, ter Stegen may have to make do with the bench, but he could also start while Neuer works on his fitness.   International games: 19 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Trapp is the main beneficiary of Neuer's failure to recover. He had an underwhelming season, making just 12 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain and some high profile errors, but he's made the cut, for now.   International games: 3 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Bayern Munich man is arguably Germany's best defender, and one of the first names on Löw's teamsheet. But Boateng picked up a thigh injury against Real Madrid in March, casting doubt on whether he will be fit in time for the World Cup. International games: 70 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 2 Boateng's central defensive partner at club and international level is one of Löw's key men. The question is not whether he is going to start at the World Cup, but who will be starting alongside him.  International games: 63 / Goals: 5 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The Chelsea defender evidently has Löw's trust, as proven by his regular playing time during World Cup qualifiers. He will likely be the primary backup to Boateng and Hummels.   International games: 23 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 He had a strong first season at Bayern and has experience playing with both Hummels and Boateng. The 22-year-old is now poised to make his first World Cup squad.   International games: 9 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 His transfer from Borussia Dortmund to Borussia Mönchengladbach hasn't done Ginter's international chances any harm. The utility man was the youngest squad member of the 2014 team, but didn't play a minute at the tournament. He'll be hoping for more this time, but may also struggle to make the final 23.   International games: 17 / Goals: 0 / World Cup appearances: 1 The Bayern defender has not only become Germany's best right back, but one of the best right backs in the world. Löw will need him at his best at the World Cup.   International games: 27 / Goals: 3 / World Cup appearances: 0 He will be playing in the second division next season after Cologne were relegated from the Bundesliga. Before then, Hector is likely to make his World Cup debut as Löw's starting left back.   International Games: 36 / Goals: 3 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Despite making his international debut at the Confederations Cup last year, the Hertha Berlin man finds himself with a decent chance of travelling to Russia. A set piece specialist, the 26-year-old will be backup for Hector.   International Games: 6 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 A metronomic presence, Kroos is expected to run the show in midfield for the defending champions. The Real Madrid midfielder has been an automatic selection for Germany for some time, and could enter the tournament with another Champions League title under his belt.   International games: 82 / Goals: 12 / World Cup appearances: 2 At 31, the Juventus midfielder may no longer be at the height of his powers. But his leadership is what Löw covets most and his commanding presence on the field will, almost certainly, earn him a starting spot.   International games: 73 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 2 He missed out on the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and the 2016 European Championship in France. After starting every game at the 2017 Confederations Cup, Rudy is trying to convince Löw to finally bring him to a major tournament.   International games: 24 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Manchester City midfielder is finally fit after missing Germany's last two major tournaments with various injuries. He is another deep-lying playmaker who can make things happen in midfield.  International games: 24 / Goals: 4 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Arsenal midfielder is one of the best playmakers in the world, but has often drawn criticism for a perceived propensity to disappear at the crucial moments. Despite the political furor earlier in the week, he will be one of Löw's primary options in Russia.   International games: 89 / Goals: 22 / World Cup tournaments: 2 "Müller always plays," former Bayern coach Louis Van Gaal once said. He is not a forward in the conventional sense, but he always seems to find a way to score goals. He has World Cup pedigree too - he won the Golden Boot in 2010 and the Silver Boot in 2014.   International games: 90 / Tore: 38 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The 29-year-old finally seems set to make his World Cup debut. He just has to get through a training camp in South Tyrol without injuring himself...   International goals: 29 / Goals: 9 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Another Löw favorite, Draxler captained Germany at the Confederations Cup last year. After not getting the playing time he craved at Paris Saint-Germain this term, Draxler is looking to seize his opportunity at international level.   International games: 42 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The soon-to-be Bayern midfielder followed up his impressive Confederations Cup showing with a strong season for Schalke. However, he's likely to be back on the bench with Germany's stars back in the fold.   International games: 14 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The 22-year-old winger took on more responsibility at Leverkusen this season. Now he's aiming to cement his place in Löw's squad for years to come.   International games: 14 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Leipzig forward is small, quick and explosive — unlike most of Germany's other striking options. The 22-year-old is likely Löw's first choice up front after winning the Golden Boot at last year's Confederations Cup.   International games: 12 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Stuttgart forward has fallen down the pecking order since his terrific performance at Euro 2016. Even at 32, he is still one of Germany's most prolific goal scorers, but he has to be in tip-top shape in order to convince Löw to take him to Russia.   International games: 73 / Goals: 31 / World Cup tournaments: 1 Author: Davis VanOpdorp