NASA's Curiosity rover has discovered the most complex organic matter yet on the surface of Mars, the US space agency announced on Thursday. The compounds were found in 3.5-billion-year-old sediments in the lowest point of the Red Planet's Gale Crater. NASA has widened the search for organic molecules that could indicate past life on the surface of Mars. Read more: Astronaut Alexander Gerst: 'Sharing the space experience really helps me' "This is a significant breakthrough because it means there are organic materials preserved in some of the harshest environments on Mars," said Jennifer Eigenbrode, astrobiologist at NASA Goddard Spaceflight Center and lead author of one of two studies in Science journal. "And maybe we can find something better preserved than that, that has signatures of life in it," Eigenbrode added. Read more: How spacesuits work "This is the first really trusted detection," said study co-author Sanjeev Gupta, a professor of Earth science at Imperial College London. "What this new study is showing in some detail is the discovery of complex and diverse organic compounds in the sediments. That doesn't mean life, but organic compounds are the building blocks of life," Gupta continued. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xDcf Detection of 'seasonal patterns' The rover also collected data that confirms the detection of "seasonal patterns" in methane levels, NASA geophysicist Ashwin Vasvada said in the live-streamed announcement. NASA scientist Chris Webster said the detection of a "repeatable identifiable methane cycle" could be a sign of active biological processes. Webster confirmed water has been found on Mars and has been present for "a very long time," which points strongly toward a "habitable environment." Read more: A question about race in space Eigenbrode said Thursday's discoveries were some of the most important findings yet from NASA's search for organic molecules on Mars, which started in 1996. NASA's first announced it had discovered the presence of organic compounds on Mars in 2014 when small levels of chlorinated methane compounds were detected. But chlorinated methane is less indicative of biological activity than the new findings, Eigenbrode said. Read more: NASA shoots human sperm into space NASA intends to launch a new rover as early as July 2020 to comprehensively determine whether life ever existed on Mars, It will also characterize the climate and geology of Mars and prepare for human exploration. The probe is scheduled to land on the planet in February 2021. Six volunteer "analog astronauts" are taking part in a three-week simulation of life on Mars in southern Oman. The mission hopes to evaluate how humans cope with the psychological strain of isolation. They will also carry out an array of experiments like the one seen here. The two scientists are testing a geo-radar built to map Mars by dragging it across the sand. Joao Lousada, a flight controller for the International Space Station, tests out an experimental space suit called Aouda. The suit weighs 50 kilograms (110 pounds) and takes hours to get into. However, once on, it helps the wearer breathe, eat, communicate, and work by displaying maps and sensor data. The blue foam in the helmet is there to wipe off your nose and mouth. The six participants will spend the next three weeks in this giant, 2.4 ton inflated habitat. The terrain surrounding the base was specially selected to resemble Mars' rocky and sandy surface. The site in Oman's section of the Dhofar Desert can reach up to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (51 Celsius). With the aid of their all-terrain vehicles, the will carry out a total 16 experiments that were proposed by scientists around the world. The tasks include testing a quick "tumbleweed" robot rover, growing plants in an inflatable greenhouse and using a 3D printer to create spare parts for machines. The simulation is being carried out by the Austrian Space Forum, a collective of volunteers with private sponsers. People from 20 countries are working together on the mission — something the simulation participants want to emphasize. "We should never forget that as we explore our own planet and the solar system we have to do it responsibly and ethically," mission participant Kartik Kumar said. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with AP) law/bw (AFP, dpa)