A French NGO's rescue ship, the Aquarius, was given the go-ahead to dock in Spain's eastern port of Valencia on Monday. "It is our obligation to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe and offer a safe port for these people," Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez's office said in a statement, adding it wanted to comply with its international responsibilities on humanitarian crises. Sanchez, a socialist, issued the instructions after Italy and Malta refused to let it dock. Read more: Italy's rising populism leaves refugee aid workers worried over immigration reform The French organization SOS Mediterranee said the ship carrying 629 migrants, including 123 unaccompanied minors and seven pregnant women, was picked up off the coast of Libya on Saturday. Among those on board were 400 migrants rescued by the Italian navy and merchant vessels before being transferred to the Aquarius. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xZxs Italy and Malta, who had both refused to allow the rescue ship to dock in their ports, thanks the Spanish government for offering to receive the ship. However, it remains uncertain whether the Aquarius would feasibly be able to make the voyage, given that it currently sits some 1,400 kilometers (over 750 nautical miles) away from Valencia. "It means that we need at least two more days of sailing, which is not possible today with 629 people on board," SOS Mediterranee Maritime Operations Manager Antoine Laurent said. Logistics also counted against setting a course for Spain, Laurent added. "We would need a resupply at sea which is not so easy to organize so we urge Italy to find a solution very soon close to our position," he said. International aid group Doctors Without Borders, which has staff aboard the Aquarius, warned that food and water on the ship would run out by Monday night. Further, some of the passengers were suffering from water in their lungs, as well as from chemical burns caused by gasoline mixing with seawater. Seven female refugees onboard are pregnant Italy's far-right stands firm on migrant crackdown "Saving lives at sea is a duty, but transforming Italy into an enormous refugee camp is not," Italy's Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said on Facebook on Monday. "Italy is done bowing its head and obeying. This time there's someone saying no." Salvini, head of the right-wing, anti-immigrant League party, had promised during his election campaign to stop to the mass influx of migrants from Africa. Salvini warned a German NGO's rescue ship that it may not be allowed to dock in Italy if it picks up migrants off the Libyan coast. Spokesman for Germany's Sea Watch charity, Ruben Neugebauer, said that while it still did not have any migrants on board, Salvini was "making a point at the cost of people in distress," something he said was "highly irresponsible." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rj96 Appeals to Italy and Malta Germany called on Italy and Malta to "meet their humanitarian responsibilities" as both nations refused to allow the Aquarius to dock. "…I can say that we are concerned about the situation of the people on this ship," said German government spokesman Steffan Seibert. "The priority of both the Italian and Maltese authorities should be ensuring these people receive the care they need," said European Commission spokesman Margaritis Schinas. "We call on all involved to contribute to a swift resolution so that the people on board the Aquarius vessel may be safely disembarked as soon as possible." The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) appealed to concerned governments on Monday to allow the immediate disembarkation of hundreds of people on board the Aquarius. "People are in distress, are running out of provisions and need help quickly," UNHCR's Vincent Cochetel said in a statement. He added that "broader issues" such as sharing responsibilities "should be looked at later." At around 10:30 a.m. on Saturday, March 31, the search-and-rescue vessel Aquarius, along with the Libyan coast guard, was alerted by the Italian Rescue Maritime Coordination Center (IMRCC) that a rubber boat was in distress in international waters. Aquarius is manned by rescue workers from SOS Mediteranee, medics from Doctors without Borders (MSF) and a nautical and technical crew. Aquarius made first contact with the rubber boat in international waters at around 11:00 a.m. Soon after, the SOS head coordinator was informed by IMRCC that the Libyan coastguard would take charge of the rescue operation. As people in the overcrowded rubber boat, visibly in distress, waved frantically, Aquarius was instructed to standby and wait for further instructions. Two hours later, and with no Libyan coastguard in sight, the Aquarius was able to convince the IMRCC and the Libyans to allow them to rescue children, women and families. They evacuated 39 vulnerable people. They had to leave the remaining 80-90 men on the rubber boat to the Libyan coastguard. The Aquarius has the capacity to carry 500 rescued people. MSF nurse Sylvie was on board the Aquarius' fast-speed rescue boat, whose personnel identified medical and vulnerable cases later evacuated to the NGO ship. Over the course of three missions, the staff saved 292 people from more than 20 countries, the majority from sub-Saharan Africa. Besides showing signs of dehydration, exhaustion and weakness, some also displayed signs of physical abuse. As parents rested on the ship's deck, MSF logistician Francois took a moment to interact with the newly arrived children. Those rescued got a chance to bond with the ship's crew as well as to express themselves in safe and secure surroundings. Dr. Dan from California gave each new arrival a check-up to see whether anyone was in need of urgent medical care. Once on land, those rescued are examined by local medical staff in Italy. As the vessel pitched and rolled in strong winds, SOS Mediteranee team member Theo cuddled a child rescued the day before. "As a seaman it's your duty to save anybody in distress," he said. "We all shed tears yesterday. I had a baby and children in my arms. We helped some women. What's the most important is to get all these out people out of the water, to save them and for them to survive." As the Aquarius approached the Sicilian city of Messina, the designated Italian port of safety, many of the rescued women began singing French and English gospel songs praising the Lord and thanking him for safe passage across the Mediterranean Sea. Francois personally helped all 292 men, women and children disembark. "Emotionally it was really hard, because once the last guy stepped out on shore, it was over. I could just call everyone and say disembarkation successfully finished, and then I felt empty." These lucky people made it to Europe. According to international NGOs figures, between 750,000 and 900,000 immigrants and asylum-seekers remain trapped in Libya, whose migrant detention centers the UN has called inhumane. Many see merely one way out: to attempt to cross one of the world's most deadly seas in rubber dinghies that can only be considered floating death traps. Author: Filip Warwick Migrant 'taxis' More than 600,000 mostly African migrants have reached Italy by boat from Libya in the past five years. Right-wing politicians have accused charity boats operating off the coast of Libya of operating as "taxis" for migrants. The migrant influx has led to a populist backlash, with Salvini vowing to prevent Italy from becoming the "refugee camp of Europe." On Friday, he suggested NATO intervene to protect Italy, saying the country is "under attack from the south." SOS Mediterranee said late Sunday that it had received instructions from Italian authorities to hold position between Malta and Italy after previously heading north. "Our only objective is the disembarkation in a port of safety of the people that we rescued yesterday in difficult conditions," it said, adding that it "took good note" of the Italian Interior Ministry's statements. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2z5n8 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm, kw, cw/msh (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)