A Portuguese politician and former EU commissioner was elected Friday to become the next director general of the UN's International Migration Agency (IOM). Antonio Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino was elected after member states snubbed US President Donald Trump's pick for the post: Ken Isaacs, an executive with the Christian charity Samaritan's Purse. Isaacs was eliminated after three rounds of voting. The closed-door election process lasted nearly five hours. Vitorino emerged victorious after fending off a challenge from current IOM deputy chief Laura Thompson of Costa Rica. The IOM Tweeted the news. Electing Vitorino marks a stunning repudiation of historic American control of the organization: The IOM has been led by an American throughout the agency's 67-year history with one exception from 1961 to 1969. Trump's choice problematic Isaacs was seen as the natural successor to incumbent William Lacy Swing, mostly because the US is the UN organization's largest funder and has been continuously fielding its director generals since the late 1960s. Negative comments on the Muslim faith did not help Isaacs' candidacy But in recent months, social media postings surfaced in which Isaacs linked adherence to the Muslim faith with a predisposition to violent extremism. Isaacs has apologized in response. "I pledge to hold myself to the highest standards of humanity, human dignity and equality if chosen to lead IOM," he had said in a statement. Vitorino helped by EU efforts on migration According to sources in the room during the voting, the Portuguese national was chosen by acclamation, following a fourth round of voting that left him in the lead. However, he did not have the two-thirds majority that according to IOM rules is required to claim victory. Diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the 61-year-old Vitorino's bid has been helped by the European Union's painstaking efforts to forge a common response to migration challenges and the strategic advantage of having one of their own as the IOM chief. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30Uzi Trump's hardline stance on migration — from the so-called Muslim ban to his "zero tolerance" policy on the southern US border that led to separating parents and children — undermined Washington's traditional right to choose the world's top migration official. Trump has also levelled ferocious attacks against multilateral bodies and also undermined the IOM's core global function which is refugee resettlement. As one of his first acts in office, President Donald Trump signed executive order 13769 on January 27, 2017. Referred to as the "Muslim ban," it barred entry into the US for most people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen for 90 days. It also halted entry for refugees from the Syrian conflict indefinitely, and placed a 120-day moratorium on refugees entering from all other nations. By the thousands, people flocked to major US international airports, including JFK in New York and LAX in Los Angeles to protest what they saw as open Islamophobia. International leaders, US diplomats, Catholic bishops, Jewish organizations, Nobel laureates and UN officials all decried the measure. About 50 lawsuits against the ban were launched following its announcement. Just two days later, a judge in New York issued a temproary injunction. Then on February 9, 2017, a federal judge in the state of Washington issued a nationwide temporary restraining order against the rule. The government filed an appeal, but it was rejected by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In response to legal challenges, on March 6, 2017, Trump signed what he called a "watered down, politically correct version" of his previous travel ban. The new ban allowed permanent residents of the US to travel back and forth to visit their families and permitted travel to those who had already been granted visas but had not yet arrived in the US, a group hit particularly hard by the first ban. On March 15, a federal judge in Hawaii issued a temporary restraining order against the new law, the same day a federal judge in Maryland came to a similar conclusion. In early June, the Trump administration filed an appeal. On June 26, US Supreme Court decided to partially lift injunctions against the ban as it waited to hear oral arguments against these injunctions in October 2017. In September 2017, Trump responded to criticism that his travel bans purposely targeted only Muslims by removing Iraq and Sudan from the list and adding non-Muslim majority nations such as Venezuela and North Korea. Though it did add mostly-Muslim Chad. In December, the Supreme Court allowed the ban to stand until it made its final decision on the case. On June 26, 2018, the Supreme Court decided 5-4 (along conservative/liberal lines) to let the ban stand. In the majority opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts made it clear that the court was not ruling on the "soundness" of the policy, but that the president had "set forth a sufficient national security justification." Protestors gathered on the court's steps comforted one another after the ruling. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Some analysts had warned that voters might pick Isaacs to avoid damaging US funding cuts, but Trump's posture on migration and Isaacs's personal history of making anti-Muslim comments on social media appeared to sway the room The handover will take place on October 1. av/jm (DPA, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.