US first lady Melania Trump on Thursday visited two facilities housing some of the more than 2,300 migrant children separated by the US government after their families illegally entered the country. The unannounced visit came a day after US President Donald Trump — in a stunning about-face — moved to end the practice of splitting up immigrant families. Trump reversed his tough stance on separating families after days of outrage over the policy from at home and abroad. Read more: Trump's migrant family separations reversal too little, too late Mrs. Trump first traveled to the Upbring New Hope Children's Shelter in McAllen, Texas, which houses 60 children aged from 5 to 17. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/301fo "I'm glad I'm here and I'm looking forward to seeing the children," she told a roundtable discussion with social workers and government officials. "I would also like to ask you how I can help these children to reunite with their families as quickly as possible."  Mrs. Trump's jacket caused some controversy over whether a message written graffiti-style on the back indicated her true thoughts on the migrant issue. The message read, "I really don't care, do you?" Her spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham said: "It's a jacket. There was no hidden message. After today's important visit to Texas, I hope the media isn't going to choose to focus on her wardrobe. " Ahead of the trip, the White House said Mrs. Trump had been making her opinion known to the president that he needed to act to keep migrant families together. Trump cited his daughter and wife when signing Wednesday's executive order. "Ivanka feels very strongly, my wife feels very strongly about it, I feel very strongly about it. I think anybody with a heart would feel very strongly about it. We don't like to see families separated," Trump said. Most Central American migrants travel on top of cargo trains, to reduce the risk of being stopped and deported. Buses are more often stopped by migration officers. Crossing the American border is a challenge. In case they cannot afford a "coyote" — a human trafficker— many of the young men consider carrying drugs as a means to pay for the border crossing that is controlled by drug cartels. Catching a moving train is not without danger: Alex Garcia, who used to be a farmer, lost his leg while trying to get off a moving train. He is recovering at a refugee shelter and doesn't know where to go afterwards. According to Miquel Angel (above) the biggest risk along the road is being kidnapped by organized criminal groups, like the Zetas. Most migrants do not carry a cellphone or a notebook, in case they are caught and extorted. The migrants try to find shelter along the route in one of Mexico’s 52 albergues, or shelters. In Apizaco they are allowed 24 hours to rest, except when they are the victim of a crime or accident. All four men in the picture have permission to stay longer, as they were either shot or otherwise physically injured during their journey. Sometimes the migrants have to wait for days for the next train. Delmin Flores (center), and his two cousins Alejandro Deras and Luis Deras sit in the sun for hours in front of the shelter. They were forced to leave their coffee-growing region in Honduras after coffee prices plummeted. At night, they risk being robbed or killed by organ trade traffickers. Hardly any children or women take the journey by train. The risk of falling into the hands of traffickers or being violated is very high. This woman and child are accompanied by the husband, who has tried the journey more than 17 times. Herdin Varga recounts how he was shot by a guard on the train. The bullets hit him in his arm and neck. One centimeter to the right and he would be dead. He's been given permission to recover in the shelter and is in the process of requesting a temporary permit to travel Mexico so that he can continue his trip by bus. The shelter was founded and funded in 2010 by the Catholic priest Ramiro Sanchez. It later turned into a civil organization, independent of the government. Before meals are served, refugees pray together. Many of the migrants are religious and believe that God will provide protection during their journey. If they've checked out of the shelter, migrants cannot enter again to spend the night. This rule has been installed to protect the safety of the employees who fear that the migrants may have been come into contact with human traffickers. "The shelter is for humanitarian aid, not for people making business out of it," shelter employee Sergio Luna told DW. This group of migrants boarded the only train that passed that day, but it stopped immediately after leaving the railway station. They were forced to walk back to the shelter and try their luck next time. Author: Sanne Derks (Apizaco, Mexico) Despite the change of heart, there was no immediate plan in place to reunite the more than 2,300 children already separated from their families. His administration could face new legal battles over the order, which — in the case of those being prosecuted for entering the country illegally — will keep families together but in custody. Read more: Hondurans in 
US  to lose specially-protected immigration rights The US House of Representatives was to vote on a pair of immigration bills on Thursday, including one that directly addresses the family separation issue, but postponed a vote on the more moderate of the two bills until Friday. The bill that would have taken an even harder line on immigration was defeated Thursday, as expected. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zsn7 mm/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 