We hear a distant rumble of thunder. There's no sign of rain — yet. Even if it is on its way, that's still no excuse. Running shoes on and glove and bag in hand, I'm all set to start plogging. Going it alone is no fun, though, so I ask a couple of friends if they'd like to try out the new trend with me. "You mean picking up other people's garbage?" my friend Petra replies unenthusiastically. I explain that plogging is the latest trend to come out of Sweden. It's a combination of the word jogging and the Swedish word plocke, meaning "to collect." The idea is simple — if you see a piece of garbage while you're running or walking, you pick it up: Good for your body, and good for the planet. Petra isn't thrilled at the prospect but relents in the end, with a "Why not?" After all, she often complains about the trash in our otherwise beautiful park. I also manage to convince my friend Regina and my husband to join us. Persuading my nine-year-old daughter proves more difficult. Truth be told, she doesn't even pick up her things in her own bedroom. I plead that running in a group will be fun, but she's having none of it. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ryxg The idea of running and helping the environment at the same time appeals more to my 12-year-old. And her enthusiasm is enough to convince her little sister. Soon both girls are kitted-out for the cleanup, and we're all ready to go. A worldwide craze We meet up at the Vorgebirgspark in south Cologne. On the way, I explain how Swedish environmental activist Erik Ahlström started the plogging craze two years ago. Thanks largely to viral videos on social media, it has spread around the world. From Germany to Chile, the United States and even Russia, people are responding to calls to meet in parks or on city streets to help liberate their neighborhoods of garbage — all while keeping fit, of course. My group of newbie ploggers aren't the only ones trying out the trend in our region of western Germany. A group called Plogging Cologne was launched in February by two journalists and sportswomen, Anita Horn and Caro Köhler. The Plogging Cologne group has more than 350 members It now has more than 350 members, including environmentalists, housewives, mothers with children, students, and pensioners. A mixed group — just like ours. We start with a walk through the park, scouring the ground for trash and glancing anxiously at the sky. Will the weather hold? Or will our efforts at civic responsibility be rewarded with a soaking? We decide to take our chances and start running. The grass looks nice and tidy at first glance, but there is plenty of garbage in the bushes. So we stop and pick it up. DW reporter Anabela Linke pulled together this small group for a self-experiment in Cologne Cleaner city, better workout My eldest daughter is particularly pleased with her first find — two bottles that can be returned to redeem a deposit. This sport could make her rich, she says with a grin. It doesn't take long before our bags are half-full with bottle caps, tissues, bags of doggie doo and plastic packaging. Köhler from Plogging Cologne reports picking up a vast array of items — not just coffee cups, candy wrappers and old newspapers; but also diapers, old frying pans, shoes, bike parts and even office chairs. The group organizes disposal in advance, with local waste companies waiting to collect the garbage at the end of the run. Germans may not be so tidy as you imagine they'd be A group of trashbag-toting joggers running into the bushes raises a few eyebrows among the public. Other reactions from passers-by range from curious to congratulatory. One couple enjoying an evening game of badminton even asks if they can join us next time. Thanks to my husband, who is a sports scientist, we also discover that plogging offers a more complete workout than jogging alone. "When we bend over," he explains, "we're exercising leg muscles which we usually don't use while we're jogging." The right way to pick up garbage Every little bit helps After about an hour, we're done. Our bags are full and the park is little cleaner. It's not perfect, but Regina is happy with the improvement. Petra admits that taking a small bag with you to pick up litter whenever you go walking or jogging isn't so hard. But my 12-year-old looks worried. "Our world should be kept in a healthy state 100 years from now. But with all this plastic garbage created every day, it doesn't look good for us kids." Samuel is only 10 years old, but when it comes to describing how climate change will impact our planet, he has a clear answer: water will rise so much that people living near the sea will be begging for help to survive. But why does it happen? "Because of the extreme pollution," he says. While Daniel (7) loves contemplating the sun, he wonders whether it will still be here in 50 years. He is hoping it only changes slightly, and that sunsets and sunrises will still be beautiful and colorful and will keep delighting adults and children. He's already urging his parents to recycle at home. After all, it's his future that's at stake. In a near future, flying cars will still be as polluting as cars nowadays, the sky will rarely look blue due to pollution, and humankind will completely forget the importance of nature - even the last of the trees will be removed. To top it off, droughts will be so bad in some places that ships will be stranded. And for that, Paloma (10) points out, we don't need to wait 50 years but only 15. Emma (7) has been traveling through southeast Asia in recent months and has loved the experience. But it was so hot! She learned from her mom that global temperatures are increasing every year. Therefore it's not surprising how she imagines the planet in the future: the sun will almost burn out and people will be forced to leave Earth – in rockets, of course. Life on another planet is exactly what Linus (12) imagines - more concretely, on Mars. In 50 years, the Earth will be immersed in such chaos that we will have to look for a better place. But even there, we will not have learned the lesson and we will leave another trail of consumption and destruction. Not much hope for our near future, right, Linus? "Well, we can still stop it!" In place of nature, technology will dominate our daily lives, Yann (12) believes. But for him, this is not discouraging, since we will have the most advanced technologies and lots of flying objects. This is how our planet will look in 50 years: a futuristic cityscape filled with revolutionary machines. Astrid (6) has a very abstract idea about Earth. It's a place where river flows, air flows and people are simultaneously affected by the same threat: a gigantic carbon "handprint." Astrid has heard about it at school: the bigger the "handprint," the worse the impact for us all. Our young artists don't always want to give a clear interpretation for their pieces. In this case, Miguel (10) provides us with two main options: The robot represents destructive climate change. Here, our destiny is quite clear. On the other hand, it may just mean that artificial intelligence will get out of control and become more powerful than humans. In any case, it's our time to act! At 7, Judith gets quite serious when talking about the future, and is convinced we might all be dead by 2067 - pets included. In half a century, almost no one will have survived planetary destruction: and aliens will get the chance to take over. Just in case, Judith already prefers to save precious resources. No more new sheets of paper for drawing unless she's first used the other side. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz Plogging is of course a small act in the face of the huge environmental problems. Alexander Heyd from Germany's Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU) shares my daughter's concerns. He says plogging is a fad that will soon pass, and that we need to focus more on reducing plastic packaging. Britta König of WWF Germany welcomes the plogging trend, but points out that gathering litter doesn't have to be done only while jogging. Yet not only consumers need to act on the plastic pollution problem — also businesses and manufacturers should be held responsible for managing their own waste, she says. But even if the craze does turn out to be short-lived, Köhler from Plogging Cologne hopes it will make people think differently about waste. As we made our way through the park, I did start to think about my habits. I considered what I should be buying in order to bring home as little packaging as possible. And I'm happy my children are being prompted to consider these issues, too. Read more: Plastic-free supermarket aisles see anti-waste go mainstream After an hour of running around the park collecting garbage, they'll stop dropping the stuff themselves — hopefully? Billions of plastic straws end up as waste. The European Union wants to ban these and other single-use plastics, which end up in rubbish dumps or in our oceans. But for those who just can’t stop sucking — like Marco Hort, who set a world record with 259 straws stuffed in his mouth — there are environmentally friendly alternatives. Animals in the ocean often try to eat plastic straws. To protect the environment, you can now eat the straw yourself. The German startup Wisefood has developed an edible straw made from the leftovers of Germany’s apple juice production. Alternatively, you can also acquire a multiple-use straw made from metal, bamboo or glass. There are no exact numbers of how many plastic forks, knives and spoons are used once and then binned. But it’s enough for the EU to want to say goodbye to them. If you need to eat on the run and can't use metal silverware, you might try edible versions. The Indian startup Bakey’s offers forks made out of sorghum; the US company SpudWares, out of potato starch. Yummy! Talking about eating your plastic alternatives: You might also like to try edible plates, since plastic plates will be on the way out under the EU's ban. The Polish company Biotrem has developed plates made from bran. In case you are already full from your meal, don't worry: The plates are organic and decompose after 30 days. Besides banning the private use of disposable plastic products, the EU aims to encourage fast food chains, cafes and bars to curb the use of plastic cups. Half a trillion plastic cups are consumed every year — most of them being used for a single drink, then staying in the environment for eternity. Several companies now offer plant-based alternatives. One of those companies is the Balinese startup Avani. It has developed a compostable bioplastic made from corn starch. Although the cups look and feel like petroleum-based plastic cups, they are biodegradable. However, they decompose best in a commercial composting facility, and not in your backyard The easiest way to replace plastic cups is by using reusable mugs. But we might not always have our personal coffee cups on hand while we are out on the streets. Berlin is among German cities testing out a pilot project allowing coffee aficionados to borrow a reusable bamboo mug for a small deposit, and return it at another cafe at a later point. Another plastic product the EU would see gone are ear buds. When disposed of improperly, they end up in the ocean, where animals mistake them for food. There are plastic-free alternatives with the stem made from bamboo or paper. But hardcore environmentalists say it's best to stop using them altogether — you can use your towel to clean your ears. Author: Katharina Wecker