Hong Kong's High Court on Monday jailed prominent pro-independence activist Edward Leung for six years for his role in an all-night riot two years ago.  The 27-year-old was already in custody after pleading guilty in January to a separate charge of assaulting a police officer during the riot. He was sentenced to one year in prison for the assault, with the two terms to be served concurrently. Read more: Hong Kong democracy activists appeal jail terms in court  The 2016 protest began as a rally in the city's Mong Kok shopping district to protect unregistered street vendors from health inspectors but quickly escalated into an outpouring of anger against authorities in mainland China. It later became known as the "Fishball Revolution" after one of Hong Kong's best-loved street snacks. 'Protecting Hong Kong Culture' Leung, who pleaded not guilty, said he wanted to "protect Hong Kong culture" and had no intention of rioting. Local media reported he had been inspired by the pro-democracy slogan "Without resistance, how is there change?" Handing down his prison sentence, Judge Anthea Pang described Leung's actions as "wanton and vicious." Demonstrators had hurled bricks and set rubbish on fire in some of the city's worst protest violence in decades. Leading the clashes were young "localists," which refers to radical groups promoting independence from Beijing. Those groups grew out of massive pro-democracy rallies in 2014, which tried but failed to win concessions from Beijing on political reform. Pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong, who has campaigned for Hong Kong's self-determination but not independence, described Leung's sentence as "the harshest imposed on an opposition activist since 1997." Police arrested at least 26 young activists for causing "public nuisance" at a protest ahead of Chinese President Xi Jinping's arrival in Hong Kong. Animosity towards Beijing has grown among young people in Hong Kong in recent years, with some demanding a full split from the mainland. A protest on July 1, the day of the anniversary, could draw up to 100,000 people. Protesters previously draped a black sheet over the "Forver Blooming Gold Bauhinia" sculpture. The statue, which depicts Hong Kong's sweet-smelling official emblem, was given to the city by China to mark the 1997 handover. It is located outside a convention center that will host some of the anniversary events and is close to where Chinese President Xi Jinping will be staying. Around 30 protesters gathered at the "Golden Bauhinia" statue on Wednesday, climbing on its petals and forming chain around its base. The demonstrators inside the flower were the last to be removed and were helped down by firefighters. The activists held a three-hour sit-in around the sculpture before police began leading them away one-by-one. Prior to the arrests, the demonstrators shouted: "Civil disobedience, no fear!" and "Xi Jinping, can you hear us?" Student protest leader Joshua Wong (center) was among those arrested on Wednesday evening. Although other protesters were led from the scene, Wong lay down on the ground and was carried from the scene into a police van. He was one of the leaders of the Umbrella Movement in 2014 which saw mass rallies in Hong Kong. Their calls for democratic reforms ultimately failed to win concessions. Hong Kong's youngest lawmaker and former Umbrella Movement leader Nathan Law (center) was also carried away by police and remained in custody. The 23-year-old was elected to the legislature last year. President Xi is visiting Hong Kong for celebrations to mark the 20th anniversary of Britain's handover of the territory to China on July 1. But there are concerns that Beijing has been violating the "one country, two systems" deal by interfering in politics, education and media. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier Extreme sentences Hong Kong's last British governor, Chris Patten, slammed Leung's sentence. Referring to legislation passed during the 2014 Umbrella Movement, he said, "It is disappointing to see that the legislation is now being used politically to place extreme sentences on the pan-democrats and other activists." A police representative denied that the case amounted to political persecution. "The sentence reflects the gravity of the offence," said the chief inspector of the Organized Crime and Triad Bureau, Tse Tsz-kwan. kw/amp (AP, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.