The state of German-Turkish relations needed no real introduction at Monday night's "Germany and Us" talk. Since the failed coup attempt against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on July 15, 2016, and the ongoing crackdown that ensued, diplomatic ties between Ankara and Berlin have looked at times to be completely severed. With German citizens arrested, threats of sanctions from Berlin, and comparisons of European politicians to Nazis, mutual mistrust and diplomatic conflicts have flared up in quick succession over the past three years.  Sitting on the panel in central Berlin was Deutsche Welle Editor-in-Chief Ines Pohl, reporter at Germany's Die Zeit newspaper Özlem Topcu, Berlin correspondent of 40 years for Turkey's Hurriyet, Ahmet Külahci, and Cihan Sinanoglu from the group Turkish Communites in Germany (TGD). Cihan Sinanoglu (Turkish Communites in Germany), Ines Pohl (DW Editor in Chief) and Ahmet Külahçı (Hurriyet) "So, under what circumstances is Turkey heading into the June 24 election?" asked panel host Ebru Tasdemir. Unprecedented was the general consensus. Never in the 16 years that the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) has been in power has it called early elections. But why now? Calling the election on April 18, Erdogan said "developments of historical importance in our region," were behind the decision, as well as "the cross-border operation we're carrying out in Syria."  End of the economic miracle? Analysts, however, have a different theory. Since Erdogan's AKP swept to victory in 2002, Turkey enjoyed somewhat of an economic miracle: gross domestic product was tripled, more than $220 billion in foreign investment flooded the Turkish markets and inflation was back in single figures.  But as Turkey makes its transition from a parliamentary democracy to an executive presidential system, the country is fast approaching an economic crisis: investors are losing confidence, tourists are staying away and the lira currency is rapidly losing value. Better now for Erdogan to send Turkey to the polls 18 months earlier than planned than risk seeking election during an economic downturn. Read more: Turkey's low-interest time bomb Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yfwX The upcoming election has also seen the formation of an unusual alliance among Turkey's opposition, with the Republican People's party (CHP), the Iyi (Good) party, the Islamist Saadet party (SP) and the Democrat Party (DP) all joining forces in the hope of preventing Erdogan from securing wide-ranging executive powers. The opposition alliance is a "smart move" politically, said Pohl, DW Editor-in-Chief. "But whether they could really form a coalition is another question," she added.  'Erdogan is like the AKP's magician'  The result of this month's presidential and parliamentary elections will also see the constitutional amendments that were passed following the 2017 referendum come into full force. Die Zeit reporter, Topcu, said the result of the two votes could turn out differently, with Erdogan faring better in the presidential election that in the parliamentary vote. March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. Tolu and Steudtner have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier "Without Erdogan, the AKP would just be another party. He's like the magician that gives the party its power," she said, suggesting that the opposition alliance could potentially win a majority in parliament. This, however, could turn into a "blockade," Topcu added, with Erdogan holding presidential office, but with an opposition government. "If this becomes a reality, we could see snap elections, yet again, within months."  Election rally ban One of the most contentious issues in Germany surrounding the upcoming elections is the ban on rallies being held on German soil — a decision with the Turkish leader previously dubbed as "Nazi tactics."  Speaking on Monday evening's panel, Hurriyet correspondent Külahci said the bans were a "huge mistake." "This decision unintentionally helped Erdogan," Külahçı said. "He was able to turn around to voters and say: Look, this is the West, these are the democrats, closing the door on the freedom of opinion of others."  Read more: After Yücel, Germany looks to others detained in Turkey  DW's Editor in Chief disagreed. Referring back to the fact that some 150 journalists are currently imprisoned in Turkey — making it the world's biggest jailer of the profession — Pohl supported Berlin's decision to ban political rallies in Germany during the three-month period ahead of elections in non-EU countries. "Of course, this isn't a long-term solution to the situation in Turkey," she said. "But we have to stand by what we believe in. We cannot allow an election campaign to take place here in Germany, which is against our democratic values." Turkish-German relations turned particularly bitter after Berlin banned election rallies Last month's media uproar over the meeting between Erdogan and German national footballers Mesut Özil and Ilkay Gündogan also didn't go without mention. The two players were slammed in May for the photo-op, which critics claimed was being used by Erdogan to influence the upcoming elections. At the same time, the meeting fueled the ever-rumbling identity debate in Germany. This constant "debate of belonging" does no good for relations, said Sinanoglu from the TGD. "It's a dilemma that even I struggle with. I'm here, but I'm also there. And I still haven't found an answer to this dilemma." German national footballer Mesut Özil meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in London Read more: Mesut Özil and Ilkay Gündogan criticized for Erdogan meeting Freedom to vote Opening the floor to the audience on Monday, allowed for one of the most common questions posed by Erdogan critics. "How can people vote for Erdogan and live freely in Germany?" After all, the majority of German voters of Turkish origin traditionally vote for the center-left in German elections. Research by the University of Cologne and the University of Duisburg-Essen found that a third of German-Turks voted for the Social Democrats (SPD) in Germany's September 2017 election, 16 percent voted for the Left Party and 13 percent for the Greens.   The same skepticism can also be asked of decisions in Germany, said Die Zeit journalist Topcu, making reference to the election of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) into Germany's parliament for the first time last September. Ebru Taşdemir (Taz), Özlem Topçu (Die Zeit), and Cihan Sinanoglu (Turkish Communites in Germany) "There are several answers, but one that's rather banal," Topcu said. "They think Erdogan's good." "Turkish voters vote pragmatically. And Erdogan is often considered to have improved the situation — and that's primarily the situation in their back pocket." Eligible voters outside of Turkey, of which there are 1.4 million in Germany, have between June 7 and 19 to cast their ballots. According to a poll carried out throughout May by Konsensus, Erdogan currently has a lead of 12 percent in the presidential election and his AKP is ahead by 16.4 percent in the parliamentary vote. But how seriously should the polls be taken? Deutsche Welle Editor-in-Chief Pohl had one piece of advice for Turkey watchers: "Don't make the mistake of only looking to metropoles like Istanbul and Ankara to see how the election might play out."