Worried you've contracted HIV? In Germany, the HIV self test, which just passed inspection in a large-scale study, will be available in pharmacies this year. Anyone concerned they've contracted the disease will then be able to check, in the privacy of their own home, whether or not they're infected. "The HIV self test is a simple and safe procedure," says Norbert Brockmeyer, Head of the Center for Sexual Health and Medicine (WIR) in Bochum, Germany. Approximately 13,000 people in Germany don't know that they're HIV-positive. Not knowing their condition not only puts their own health at risk – they also risk transmitting the virus to others, who can become infected through sexual contact. Nowadays, people who are treated can live better and longer – just as long, in fact, as non-HIV-infected individuals. Nevertheless, many people still shy away from taking an HIV-test at the doctor's office or at an STD clinic. The main reason: They're ashamed or afraid the result might be positive. Norbert Brockmeyer is the Head of the Center for Sexual Health and Medicine in Bochum, Germany Second test is a must The HIV self test is just as reliable as the test you take at the doctor's or at a hospital, says Brockmeyer. "Overall, the analyses are very reliable. But just as with other tests, there can be false-positive results. Every test has a certain error rate. This means that it isn't one hundred percent certain that someone with a positive result is actually HIV-positive." With the help of a different system, a second test can bring clarity into the situation and should always be carried out, Brockmeyer says. This can be done at the doctor's practice, at the public health department or at AIDS relief services. People who regularly have high-risk sexual intercourse should be tested frequently and will be able to test themselves very soon. But a period of time does first have to elapse between the sexual activity and the HIV test. "It is important to know that you can't take the HIV self test one day after sexual intercourse, get a negative result and think all is well," Brockmeyer warns. In total, six weeks have to pass before taking the test. All in all, the expert sees the approval of the HIV self test as a milestone for sexual health. The 90-90-90-goal By 2020, the World Health Organization hopes to achieve a few goals to further reduce the number of HIV infections around the world. First, 90 percent of HIV-positive individuals should be aware of their infection. "We haven't quite reached that goal in Germany, but we're getting there," says Brockmeyer. "We are very close to reaching this goal." Of the 90 percent who know of their infection, 90 of those should then undergo treatment. Of those, 90 percent should then see their viral loads drop below the virus detection limit. At that point, those people will no longer be infectious to others. "In Germany, we're actually over 90 percent – we're at about 93 to 94 percent of people that are being treated," Brockmeyer says. "In our Center for Sexual Health and Medicine we've even reached 97 percent." He sees the self test as a great opportunity to reach the WHO's goals. The earlier an infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is diagnosed, the more successful the treatment "Many individuals will go to the doctor and be treated after a positive self test. We can only win," he says. "I believe that through the discussion surrounding the test, we can raise awareness amongst the public. It's a chance to lower the HIV infection rate. We can reach people who are HIV positive and can treat them accordingly." The new test should be an incentive for anyone worried about an infection. His appeal: "Get yourself tested, live better, live longer." The drama "120 BPM" is the latest film to take on the illness. Directed by Robin Campillo, the movie tells the love story of two young AIDS activists. It won the Grand Prix jury prize at Cannes in spring and opened in Germany just ahead of World AIDS Day. Above all, French and American productions took up the subject of HIV and AIDS early on. "Longtime Companion" by Norman René is considered the very first to have described the disease as it tells the stories of eight gay middle-class men who are friends in the early 80s. That's when the illness first appeared and began ravishing the community, the impact of which is at the heart of the film. The French director and lead actor in "Savage Nights," Cyrill Collard, likewise takes up the topic of repression of AIDS when he brought his autobiographically influenced novel of the same name to life. In the film version, Collard plays a bisexual who does not take his life or that of his partners into consideration. He died in 1993, just one year after its release. Jonathan Demme's film "Philadelphia" was the first major Hollywood production that brought AIDS to the big screen for a wide audience. In it, Tom Hanks plays a lawyer who is let go from his job due to his illness. He takes his former employer to court in a melodramatic and sentimental film that is very effectively staged. With the Oscar-winning film, AIDS was finally recognized by Hollywood. Whereas "Philadelphia" was a true Hollywood production, "And the Band Played On," released that same year, took a quieter, nearly documentary approach to the AIDS epidemic. Starring Matthew Modine as the young AIDS researcher Dr. Don Francis, the film by Roger Spottiswoode attempted to tell the tale of those infected by including numerous stories. Two years later, director Larry Clark put out the teenage drama "Kids," a fictional narrative with a documentary feel. The director highlighted the youth culture in New York in the mid-90s, where sex is on the minds of young boys and girls alike while AIDS lurks in the background. The scenes are drastic and with actors not yet of age, the film created quite a controversy after its release. What appears to be a standard Pedro Almodóvar film, "All About My Mother," released by the Spanish director in 1999, takes on the lives, loves and sorrows of a handful of protagonists. Set in Madrid and Barcelona, the melodrama addresses gender roles and society's prejudices, with AIDS playing a central role in the film. "The Witnesses" is French director André Téchiné's look back to the 1980s, when the AIDS crisis first came into focus. The movie follows several characters as it shows the disease and its impact on their lives at all stages. The movie was celebrated at the Berlinale for its handling of the AIDS epidemic but wasn't able to make the leap into German theaters, despite stars like Emmanuelle Béart. Germany has likewise tackled AIDS as a film subject. Rosa von Praunheim was the first, with his typically anarchistic approach in "A Virus Knows No Morals" in 1986. In 2009, director Detlef Buck took a more worldly view on the global crisis, with "Same Same But Different," which follows the love story between a young German man (David Kross, seen above) and a Cambodia prostitute. "Dallas Buyers Club" by Canadian director Jean-Marc Vallée was widely acclaimed upon its release three years ago. Matthew McConaughey (r.) and Jared Leto are brilliant as two people living with HIV in the 1980s, who are trying to get their hands on the AIDS medications that could prolong their lives. Both actors won nods from the Academy for their roles. Author: Jochen Kürten (ct) 