"We've not yet finished our considerations," teased head coach Joachim Löw, in discussion with German public broadcaster ZDF on Saturday. But he did answer one question regarding Germany's starting line-up in the Luzhniki Stadium: Julian Draxler will start. "Julian has been in great form over the past couple of months and could be decisive at this World Cup," said the 58-year-old coach. "He has a lot to offer the team – and that's what I expect from him. Once again, the value that Joachim Löw places upon experience, consistency, stability and personality in his team has become apparent. "Julian has developed really well in the past two or three years and he's been part of our team for a long time," said the 58-year-old. "He played well as captain at the Confederations Cup and took a huge step forward at that tournament in terms of his personality, his directness and his professionalism. He's already played in some of these stadiums [in Russia] and I'm a big fan of his abilities." Given the esteem in which Löw clearly holds the Confederations Cup, the pre-World Cup warm-up tournament which FIFA uses to test the host nation's readiness, one has to wonder whether Leroy Sane regrets choosing to undergo a nose operation last summer rather than travel to Russia – as Draxler did. The Paris Saint-Germain winger will likely form one  third of an attacking trident behind striker Timo Werner in the Luzhniki Stadium. Thomas Müller will make up a second part of that trio, while Mesut Özil looks set to edge out Marco Reus for the final spot. Mesut Özil (left) and Julian Draxler look set to start for Germany against Mexico The Arsenal man is another of Löw's favorites but hasn't enjoyed an ideal build-up to Russia 2018. He became embroiled in political controversy after allowing himself to be photographed next to Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan, before a knee problem ruled him out of Germany's final warm-up game against Saudi Arabia – but Löw confirmed that he is "fully fit" after completing "two extra training sessions" this week. "He seems really happy in training," added teammate Draxler. "And he's probably the most creative player we have." Reus may be starting his first World Cup on the bench, but two other debutants will be thrown in from the start. Joshua Kimmich and Timo Werner represent a new generation of German players at both ends of the pitch, although they would prefer to see themselves as much more than just like-for-like replacements for Philip Lahm and Miroslav Klose. "I'm not shy about speaking up," a confident Kimmich said on Friday, exhibiting a maturity which belies his 23 years. "If I have something to say then I am prepared to speak to my teammates about it." And Löw has total confidence that Werner can provide the firepower upfront that Germany have sometimes lacked. "Timo's greatest strength is his huge speed and penetration," he said. "He has the ability to score a lot of goals which has made him very important for us." Germany's World Cup preparation has been typically underwhelming in terms of results, but "Die Mannschaft" have proven time and time again that they know how to perform when things get serious. "It has a lot to do with the belief of the players in their own abilities," explained Löw, when asked by an envious English journalist why Germany are such a good "tournament team." "They have the experience to perform when it matters. And I'm convinced that we'll do it again tomorrow." Will Germany's best goalkeeper be fit enough to play? Even though Neuer missed most of the season with injury issues, Joachim Löw has brought his captain along in the hope that he recovers.   International games: 74 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The Barcelona goalkeeper has been Löw's go-to option with Neuer on the shelf. With Germany's captain back in the fold, ter Stegen may have to make do with the bench, but he could also start while Neuer works on his fitness.   International games: 19 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Trapp is the main beneficiary of Neuer's failure to recover. He had an underwhelming season, making just 12 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain and some high profile errors, but he's made the cut, for now.   International games: 3 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Bayern Munich man is arguably Germany's best defender, and one of the first names on Löw's teamsheet. But Boateng picked up a thigh injury against Real Madrid in March, casting doubt on whether he will be fit in time for the World Cup. International games: 70 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 2 Boateng's central defensive partner at club and international level is one of Löw's key men. The question is not whether he is going to start at the World Cup, but who will be starting alongside him.  International games: 63 / Goals: 5 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The Chelsea defender evidently has Löw's trust, as proven by his regular playing time during World Cup qualifiers. He will likely be the primary backup to Boateng and Hummels.   International games: 23 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 He had a strong first season at Bayern and has experience playing with both Hummels and Boateng. The 22-year-old is now poised to make his first World Cup squad.   International games: 9 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 His transfer from Borussia Dortmund to Borussia Mönchengladbach hasn't done Ginter's international chances any harm. The utility man was the youngest squad member of the 2014 team, but didn't play a minute at the tournament. He'll be hoping for more this time, but may also struggle to make the final 23.   International games: 17 / Goals: 0 / World Cup appearances: 1 The Bayern defender has not only become Germany's best right back, but one of the best right backs in the world. Löw will need him at his best at the World Cup.   International games: 27 / Goals: 3 / World Cup appearances: 0 He will be playing in the second division next season after Cologne were relegated from the Bundesliga. Before then, Hector is likely to make his World Cup debut as Löw's starting left back.   International Games: 36 / Goals: 3 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Despite making his international debut at the Confederations Cup last year, the Hertha Berlin man finds himself with a decent chance of travelling to Russia. A set piece specialist, the 26-year-old will be backup for Hector.   International Games: 6 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 A metronomic presence, Kroos is expected to run the show in midfield for the defending champions. The Real Madrid midfielder has been an automatic selection for Germany for some time, and could enter the tournament with another Champions League title under his belt.   International games: 82 / Goals: 12 / World Cup appearances: 2 At 31, the Juventus midfielder may no longer be at the height of his powers. But his leadership is what Löw covets most and his commanding presence on the field will, almost certainly, earn him a starting spot.   International games: 73 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 2 He missed out on the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and the 2016 European Championship in France. After starting every game at the 2017 Confederations Cup, Rudy is trying to convince Löw to finally bring him to a major tournament.   International games: 24 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Manchester City midfielder is finally fit after missing Germany's last two major tournaments with various injuries. He is another deep-lying playmaker who can make things happen in midfield.  International games: 24 / Goals: 4 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Arsenal midfielder is one of the best playmakers in the world, but has often drawn criticism for a perceived propensity to disappear at the crucial moments. Despite the political furor earlier in the week, he will be one of Löw's primary options in Russia.   International games: 89 / Goals: 22 / World Cup tournaments: 2 "Müller always plays," former Bayern coach Louis Van Gaal once said. He is not a forward in the conventional sense, but he always seems to find a way to score goals. He has World Cup pedigree too - he won the Golden Boot in 2010 and the Silver Boot in 2014.   International games: 90 / Tore: 38 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The 29-year-old finally seems set to make his World Cup debut. He just has to get through a training camp in South Tyrol without injuring himself...   International goals: 29 / Goals: 9 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Another Löw favorite, Draxler captained Germany at the Confederations Cup last year. After not getting the playing time he craved at Paris Saint-Germain this term, Draxler is looking to seize his opportunity at international level.   International games: 42 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The soon-to-be Bayern midfielder followed up his impressive Confederations Cup showing with a strong season for Schalke. However, he's likely to be back on the bench with Germany's stars back in the fold.   International games: 14 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The 22-year-old winger took on more responsibility at Leverkusen this season. Now he's aiming to cement his place in Löw's squad for years to come.   International games: 14 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Leipzig forward is small, quick and explosive — unlike most of Germany's other striking options. The 22-year-old is likely Löw's first choice up front after winning the Golden Boot at last year's Confederations Cup.   International games: 12 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Stuttgart forward has fallen down the pecking order since his terrific performance at Euro 2016. Even at 32, he is still one of Germany's most prolific goal scorers, but he has to be in tip-top shape in order to convince Löw to take him to Russia.   International games: 73 / Goals: 31 / World Cup tournaments: 1 Author: Davis VanOpdorp