The German national team are gearing up for their World Cup opener against Mexico on Sunday, hoping to preserve their spotless start to big events under head coach Joachim Löw. The Germans have won their opening matches at Euro 2008, 2012 and 2016, as well as the 2010 and 2014 World Cups. They also have a goal difference of 13-0 in those opening matches under Löw, who became Germany's head coach in 2006. Read more: Pressure grows for Germany to do more than just win The defending world champions have won just one of the six international friendlies leading up to this summer's tournament — a 2-1 win over Saudi Arabia last Friday. In fact, Germany haven't won their last two warm-up games before a major tournament since 2010, but they always step up their game when things get serious. "The last friendly you could see that we were missing something and you could see that we did not have the fire you need for a World Cup. And it's normal that things get testy in training. You have to fight for every inch," Germany defender Jerome Boateng told a press conference Thursday at Germany's World Cup headquarters in Vatutinki. "We are always known as a team that makes a good start to tournaments. It's very important for us to win the first game. And a good result will also give us confidence for the rest of the campaign." Midfielder Toni Kroos, who was sitting to Boateng's left, added: "We know that we have to pick things up. But we are looking forward to the World Cup finally starting." Jerome Boateng (left) and Toni Kroos (right) at Germany's press conference on Thursday No Champions League hangover for Kroos Kroos has achieved pretty much everything there is to achieve. He has won league titles in Germany and Spain and has lifted four Champions League trophies, one with Bayern Munich and three with Real Madrid. Indeed, the reason for his tardiness to the national team's pre-tournament training camp was because of his participation in Real Madrid's 3-1 victory in the Champions League final in May. Despite all of his success, he insists his hunger for trophies is as insatiable as ever. "With the Champions League win, you could easily say the season is over, you've achieved your goals. You tend to shut yourself down, not just physically but also mentally," Kroos said. "But playing a World Cup with this team is a pretty good motivation." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zVww Not as luxurious as Brazil Four years ago, the Germany team resided in a purpose-built five-star hotel and resort on an island off of the Brazilian mainland. Their accommodation this year is much less picturesque — a red brick hotel block in Vatutinki, an industrial village outside of Moscow. Read more: Germany arrive in Russia as title defense begins in earnest Löw has said the complex possesses the "the charm of a better sports school." Kroos and Boateng said Thursday that the downscale in luxury was not an issue and will not be an excuse if they fail to defend their World Cup title. "Sports school, yes ok but we are here to do sport," Kroos said. "I think it's ok. We can spend our time here with two, three activities that we can do. It is absolutely ok and the desire for vacation afterwards becomes even stronger." Boateng added: "We are here to play football and hopefully for a longer period of time." As statistics go, Azmoun is as good as one could hope for in Asian football. The 23-year-old forward has 22 goals in 30 appearances for Iran. He has not scored as often at Russian side Rubin Kazan, but he will be a focal point in Iran's attack. Brazil may have found their next great football star. Jesus, 21, scored 17 goals and recorded 5 assists for Manchester City this past season, and will in all likelihood be leading the line for Tite's Brazil side this summer. Uruguay has produced multiple star attackers and defenders in recent years, but Betancur, 21, could be one of their few in midfield. He made 27 appearances for Juventus this past season, including five in the Champions League. Lo Celso, 22, is the new kid on the block in an Argentina midfield that includes veterans Lucas Biglia and Ever Banega. But the young midfielder is poised to make an impact after scoring six goals and recording seven assists in 48 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain this past season. He is just 21 years old and 1.69 meters tall (5 foot 7), but Zivkovic has the pace and skill to be an impact player for Serbia. The Benfica forward scored three times and recorded seven assists in 30 appearances this past season. Hwang, 22, was one of the reasons Austrian side Red Bull Salzburg made the semifinals of the Europa League. Now he is hoping to make a similar impact with South Korea, who are hoping to return to the knockout stages of the World Cup after missing out in 2014. Golovin (left) is the hometown hero Russian football fans should get behind at the World Cup. A native of the Kemerovo region, the 21-year-old is already a regular in CSKA Moscow's team, and Russian coach Stanislav Cherchesov will need him to play a key role this summer. At Euro 2016 in France, Rashford was just a teenager along for the ride. Now he is an integral young piece of Gareth Southgate's England squad. He seems on the verge of a breakout after two full seasons under his belt, and it could come in Russia. Lozano, 22, tore it up in the Dutch first division last season, scoring 17 goals and recording 11 assists for PSV Eindhoven. He now has to translate that production to the Mexican national team, who face a tough group against Germany, Sweden and South Korea. Mbappe, 19, is a superstar in the making. He scored 21 goals and recorded 16 assists for Paris Saint-Germain last season, helping his side win a French treble. He now has the opportunity to be an impact player at his first World Cup as France chase their first World Cup since 1998. Asensio, 22, is one of the few Spanish youngsters who has become a regular at Real Madrid. After leading Spain to the U21 European Championship final last year, he will likely play a big role for Julen Lopetegui's team. He's clinical, he's fast and he's unlike many German forwards who put on the national team shirt. Werner, 22, took a minor step back this season after his breakout in 2016-17, but he will likely be the forward Joachim Löw counts on in Russia. Author: Davis VanOpdorp dv/mf (dpa, Reuters)