The Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), a regional security bloc led by China and Russia, is set to hold its 18th annual gathering in the Chinese city of Qingdao on Saturday (June 9) and Sunday. Iran is currently an observer member of the SCO, though it has long sought full membership. The event will be chaired by Chinese President Xi Jinping. The participants — including leaders from four ex-Soviet Central Asian republics and two new members, Pakistan and India — will discuss matters of international security and trade, with shoring up the Iranian nuclear deal likely to be on the top of the agenda. In May, US President Donald Trump announced that the United States will withdraw from the deal, which aimed to contain Tehran's nuclear program in exchange for lifting Western sanctions on the Islamic Republic. China, along with the European Union and Russia, also signed onto the deal with Iran. The Chinese had been ardent supporters of the agreement, according to Kerry Brown, professor of Chinese Studies at King's College, London. "In 2015 when the deal was signed, China was a leading party and it was one of first international collaborations that China got involved in," Brown told DW. "It thus has a symbolic importance, because it is really the first time that China had participated in a multi-party deal. So I think that the Chinese are quite disappointed that Trump withdrew and felt that it was a squandering of diplomatic effort," he said. Brown believes that the Chinese will reassure the Iranians of their commitment toward the deal at the SCO summit. Read more: Iran lists tough conditions for Europe to save nuclear deal 'Advantages' of Chinese-Iranian ties Bernt Berger, a senior fellow at the German Council on Foreign Affairs, told DW that China actually can draw some advantages due to the US withdrawing from the deal. "With the US pulling out of the deal China has noticed a range of advantages," Berger said. "In the past, Tehran has preferred European over Chinese technologies. However, European firms have avoided possible Iranian contracts because of the uncertainties about US policy. These uncertainties are now gone," Berger said. Iran and China already have a strong relationship, as China is Iran's biggest trading partner. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), an ambitious project launched by President Xi aiming to link China with other parts of Asia and Europe through multibillion dollar investments in infrastructure, also plays a role in strengthening their economic partnership. Iran is a key transport hub between Asia and Europe. According to Berger, "Iran provides maritime access to land-locked countries and if China manages to build a high-speed railway across Central Asia, the Central Transport Corridor is faster and poses less hurdles in terms of rail-track standards and customs than the Northern route via Moscow." Furthermore, Iran and China can trade in the Chinese yuan, which means that they can avoid US control that looms large over US dollar transactions. The SCO conference is an opportunity for Tehran and Beijing to further deepen economic ties and draw on the unique mutual advantages of their relationship. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vvX0 Still, analysts like Brown contend that Tehran and Beijing are unlikely to get too warm with each other. They believe China would not like to put its economic and political relationship with the US on thin ice by getting too close with the Islamic Republic. "China is a cautious actor, and at the end of the day it needs to maintain a good relationship with the US and it would not like to jeopardize that because of Iran. Iran is not so important for the Chinese; their relationship with America is far more important," Brown said. Iran has 'no choice' but to turn eastward According to Holly Degres, an Iran analyst and curator of The Iranist newsletter, Iran is under pressure as America renews harsh sanctions intended to "crush" the Iranian government. The Iranians therefore will have to lean on countries like China in order to make up for the economic losses due to the sanctions. "Tehran has no choice, but to refocus its economic ties on countries like China and Russia," Dagres told DW. "These are allies that receive the same amount of scrutiny from the US government to an extent, and working together makes them stronger together," she said. She said that Iran told Total, a French energy company, that if they don't secure a sanctions waiver, the South Pars oil field project will go to a Chinese state-owned company. Renewed American sanctions might also jeopardize Iran's bid to join the SCO club, the expert said. "The Iranian government and its people would like to be recognized as a regional power and major economy, but given that they are almost back to square one with the US withdrawal, it's going to be hard to see it making headway any time soon," Dagres said. "Iran will now try to push harder to join groups like the SCO, but given that they were denied entry due to sanctions in the first place, it's hard to see Beijing changing its mind." President Donald Trump announced on May 8 that he was pulling the United States out of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, arguing that the international accord was not in America's "national interest." The decision threw a cloud of uncertainty over the future of the nuclear accord and raised tensions with US allies in Europe. Britain, France and Germany lobbied the Trump administration and Congress to remain in the nuclear accord, arguing that the deal was working and a US violation without a follow up plan would be destabilizing. In European capitals, the Trump administration's withdrawal was viewed as a slap in the face of allies. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), better known as the Iran nuclear deal, was signed in 2015 by United States, China, Russia, France, Germany and Britain (P5+1) and Iran following years of negotiations. Under the international agreement, Iran agreed to dismantle its nuclear program and be subject to monitoring in exchange for the lifting on international nuclear related sanctions. The JCPOA includes a robust monitoring, verification and inspection regime carried out by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The UN watch dog has verified Iran's compliance with the deal in 12 quarterly reports. The JCPOA allows Iran to pursue a peaceful nuclear program for commercial, medical and industrial purposes in line with international non-proliferation standards. The Iran nuclear deal was President Barack Obama's signature foreign policy achievement. Seeking to undo nearly every Obama administration legacy, Trump came into office calling it the "worst deal ever." The Trump administration argues the nuclear deal doesn't address other unrelated issues such as Iran's ballistic missiles, regional influence, support for "terrorist" groups and human rights. The nuclear deal and lifting of punishing nuclear related international sanctions created optimism in Iran after years of economic isolation. However, even before Trump pulled the US out of the deal, Tehran blamed the US for holding back international investment and not fulfilling its end of the bargain due to the uncertainty created by Trump's threats. After eight years with Barack Obama, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu found the US president he wanted in Donald Trump. The Israeli leader repeatedly slammed the deal despite his own military and intelligence chiefs' assessment the that JCPOA, while not perfect, was working and should be maintained. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are the other main opponents of the nuclear deal. The EU-3 (Britain, France, Germany) are scrambling to ensure that Iran receives the economic benefits it was promised in order to avoid Tehran pulling out of the deal. As EU businesses face retaliation from the US for doing business with Iran, many are opting to avoid Iran. This would likely be a present to Chinese and Russian businesses.