Tomatoes in plastic tubs, cheese and coldcuts packed in plastic, shrink-wrapped organic cucumbers — a lot of plastic waste comes through our shopping carts. But it doesn't have to be that way: The Dutch company Eosta "engraves" its organic fruit and vegetable labels directly on the ware. Under European Union regulation, organic products have to be specially labeled so that customers can distinguish them from conventional products. Yet this results in a bitter irony: Customers who seek to be more eco-friendly by buying organic end up getting their goods wrapped in additional plastic. But through introduction of a laser mark, such plastic packaging could disappear. Ginger is among products that could get laser-marked Modern lifestyle, more waste With ever more people living as singles or on-the-go, food is increasingly offered already prepared, or in pre-packaged portions. In Germany for example, the amount of packaging that ends up in the bin every year has recently increased 2 percent to 18.2 million tons, according to the German Federal Environmental Agency. Read more: What to do about Germany's mounting packaging waste? Consumption habits are changing as lifestyle changes, including for example booming mail-order businesses and the ongoing trend of take-away food and drinks. But even in supermarkets, the amount of pre-packaged fresh food on the shelves is increasing. Customers rarely get a choice these days whether they want to buy packaged or non-packaged products. Food retailers justify abundant plastic packaging by saying this protects the products, enhancing their durability. You can choose to buy organic, you may end up getting even more plastic packaging Natural branding Netherlands-based laser technology company Eosta is trying to introduce to the market a real alternative to plastic packaging. In March 2018, Eosta received the Dutch Packaging Award in the sustainability category for its innovative packaging method "natural branding." When Eosta and the Swedish supermarket ICA ran a trial to sell organic fruit and vegetables with natural branding in 2016, they say this replaced millions of pieces of plastic packaging. According to the Dutch company, the laser mark has no negative effect on the look, taste or durability of the product. The technology is particularly suitable for fruit and vegetables with a hard shell, such as kiwis, avocados and cucumbers. Only fruits and vegetables with a hard shell can be labeled with laser But there is a little snag: On small foods, such as grapes or physalis, this method can not be used. Also with citrus fruits, natural branding is not applicable — at least for now — as these fruits can quickly replace pigments in their peels, making the logo no longer visible. Limited application The German supermarket chain REWE has launched a trial, freeing organic avocados and sweet potatoes from their packaging. Instead of annoying, sticky labels, the organic logo was burned into the outer layer of the shell by laser. The marked fruit is only available to a very limited extent so far. Read more: 'Not enough action from EU on plastic' REWE spokesperson Thomas Bonrath told DW that the method of natural branding remains an interesting technology for the future. It presents a limited field of application, which still has to be developed to optimal practical maturity, he added. But what would customers choose if they had the option: fruits and vegetables labeled with a laser or those traditionally labeled with stickers or packed with plastic? Can natural branding be a real solution to the problem of plastic packaging? Some consumers skeptical A customer at a supermarket in Bonn said she would wants to be informed about potential negative effects of the laser mark on taste or shelf life. "I would rather prefer the cucumber without plastic, because avoiding plastic would be my biggest goal," she told DW. But consumers also tend to be penny-wise. "I would pay attention to the price and not to the packaging," another customer told DW. Read more: Plastic-free: liberty or slavery? Rolf Buschmann, a packaging expert with BUND (Friends of the Earth Germany), believes the method of laser branding is an excellent solution to avoid using polluting materials, such as adhesive labels or plastic packaging. And he does not believe the laser mark would be hazardous to health. "Many of these foods have an outer shell that can be removed if necessary. In most cases, I would assume that short-term heating does not alter the food, because it is just a superficial mark and deeper layers are generally not affected," he told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vqU5 How about the price? With price point being such a decisive factor, even among eco-friendly shoppers, the question must be asked: Does the laser mark affect the price of products, compared to conventional packaging? Buschmann says production costs won't increase compared to the production of sticky labels or plastic packaging, so prices will remain unchanged. Read more: Big businesses vow to tackle plastics problem Apart from reducing or avoiding packaging material, natural branding could also counteract food waste. Thanks to the laser mark, organic products could be offered individually instead of in bulk. In the future, supermarket customers would be able to buy just as much as they really need instead of being forced to choose larger packaging units, which often end up in the garbage. Billions of plastic straws end up as waste. The European Union wants to ban these and other single-use plastics, which end up in rubbish dumps or in our oceans. But for those who just can’t stop sucking — like Marco Hort, who set a world record with 259 straws stuffed in his mouth — there are environmentally friendly alternatives. Animals in the ocean often try to eat plastic straws. To protect the environment, you can now eat the straw yourself. The German startup Wisefood has developed an edible straw made from the leftovers of Germany’s apple juice production. Alternatively, you can also acquire a multiple-use straw made from metal, bamboo or glass. There are no exact numbers of how many plastic forks, knives and spoons are used once and then binned. But it’s enough for the EU to want to say goodbye to them. If you need to eat on the run and can't use metal silverware, you might try edible versions. The Indian startup Bakey’s offers forks made out of sorghum; the US company SpudWares, out of potato starch. Yummy! Talking about eating your plastic alternatives: You might also like to try edible plates, since plastic plates will be on the way out under the EU's ban. The Polish company Biotrem has developed plates made from bran. In case you are already full from your meal, don't worry: The plates are organic and decompose after 30 days. Besides banning the private use of disposable plastic products, the EU aims to encourage fast food chains, cafes and bars to curb the use of plastic cups. Half a trillion plastic cups are consumed every year — most of them being used for a single drink, then staying in the environment for eternity. Several companies now offer plant-based alternatives. One of those companies is the Balinese startup Avani. It has developed a compostable bioplastic made from corn starch. Although the cups look and feel like petroleum-based plastic cups, they are biodegradable. However, they decompose best in a commercial composting facility, and not in your backyard The easiest way to replace plastic cups is by using reusable mugs. But we might not always have our personal coffee cups on hand while we are out on the streets. Berlin is among German cities testing out a pilot project allowing coffee aficionados to borrow a reusable bamboo mug for a small deposit, and return it at another cafe at a later point. Another plastic product the EU would see gone are ear buds. When disposed of improperly, they end up in the ocean, where animals mistake them for food. There are plastic-free alternatives with the stem made from bamboo or paper. But hardcore environmentalists say it's best to stop using them altogether — you can use your towel to clean your ears. Author: Katharina Wecker