Achilles, the supposedly psychic cat, will turn his talents to the beautiful game's most prestigious event, the World Cup, after he predicted results during last year's Confederations Cup. The white feline, who lives in St. Petersburg's Hermitage museum, will make his predictions by choosing between two bowls of food, each bearing a team flag. With the tournament scheduled to start on June 14, Achilles has been seen wearing a red soccer jersey and studying the competing teams and match schedules. He is the latest in a long line of animals conscripted into the sports results prediction business. Eight years ago his World Cup predecessor Paul the Octopus became a worldwide phenomenon after accurately predicting the winners of all of Germany's matches at the 2010 World Cup. Paul the Octopus accurately predicted the outcome of all of Germany's matches in 2010 Paul, who has since passed away, communicated his insights by choosing between two glass boxes of mussels — one with the German flag and the other bearing that of the opposing team. The case he opened first was deemed to be his predicted winner. Other animals with 'psychic abilities' at sporting events During the Euro 2016 in France, Leipzig Zoo put forward a koala named Oobi-Ooobi to predict the outcome of soccer games. Nelly the Elephant from Lüneburg Heath in northern Germany made predictions by shooting a soccer ball into two different goals. Hitting the goalpost assigned to the opposing team apparently meant Germany would win their next match. Momario, a tortoise from Schleswig-Holstein, had to choose between national flags made of green leafy veggies. Armadillo Taka from Erfurt chose winners by eating boiled chicken skin. Leipzig Zoo offered up a Koala, named Oobi-Ooobi, as a possible oracle candidate for Germany's national football team during the Euro 2016 in France. The Australian marsupial will be called on to make his first prediction on June 12, when Germany takes on Ukraine. However, zoo officials are yet to reveal how Oobi-Ooobi will channel his "psychic talents." Paul the Octopus from the German city of Oberhausen became a worldwide phenomenon after predicting the winners of all of Germany's football matches at the 2010 World Cup. Paul communicated his supposed insights by choosing between two glass boxes of mussels - one with the German flag and the other bearing that of the opposing team. The case he opened first was deemed to be his predicted winner. Nelly lives in Serengeti Park, a zoo in Northern Germany. She correctly predicted Bayern Munich’s win over Borussia Dortmund in 2013's Champions League final. Her psychic abilities were also used during 2014 World Cup. She made predictions by shooting a soccer ball into two different goals. Hitting the goalpost assigned to the opposing team apparently meant Germany would win their next match. She predicted Germany's win against Italy in the semi-final of Euro 2012. However, Joachim Löw's team embraced defeat. The tortoise was the official football oracle of a morning show of Germany's public broadcaster ARD. Before Germany’s first match against Portugal during 2014 World Cup, Momario picked Germany as favorite to win which was later proven to be true. Germany won the match with Portugal 4-0. Before the Germany-Portugal match, Ronald and other penguins were given balls decorated in colors of the two countries. Among the penguins, only Ronald kicked a Germany ball into a Portugal one providing an indication of Germany’s win. The event took place at a marine park located in the town of Lübbenau. Armadillo was the official mascot of World Cup 2014. During the competition, Taka had chosen winners by eating boiled chicken skin. In the picture taken at Erfurt zoo, Taka was predicting a result of the match between Germany and Ghana. The match later ended 2-2. Leipzig Zoo resident, Heidi the cross-eyed opossum, gained international fame with her role as an oracle in the 2011 Academy Awards. She made an appearance on American TV's Jimmy Kimmel Live, where she predicted the winners of three Academy Awards categories. Author: Felix Schlagwein/zh The 2018 World Cup in Russia will be played out at a total of 12 stadiums between June 14 and July 15. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/sms(AFP, Reuters)