A minibus crashed into the Amsterdam head office of the Netherlands' largest newspaper by circulation, then burst into flames early on Tuesday in what police said was likely a deliberate act. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30JfK The white minivan crashed into the façade of De Telegraaf building on the outskirts of Amsterdam at 4:00 am (02:00 UTC). A suspect then fled the blazing vehicle in a dark-colored car, police said. No one was injured. Read more: Shujaat Bukhari: Flashpoint Kashmir and a fearless journalist's murder The newspaper's editor-in-chief, Paul Jansen, spoke of a "deliberate attack." "We will not be intimidated," he said on local radio. There is speculation that the attack on De Telegraaf may be connected with another last Thursday, in which an anti-tank weapon was used against a building housing a weekly newspaper in the same area. No one was hurt. De Telegraaf's crime reporter Mick van Wely made the same connection on Twitter, writing: "Attack on the Telegraaf building. After Pijper Media, now we're affected too." Authorities on Friday arrested a 41-year-old male suspect who is a member of the outlawed motorcycle gang Caloh Wagoh MC Main Triad in connection with that attack. The basis for the development of a media and information literacy (MIL) curriculum is the partner organization's ties to the involved groups: young people, parents, teachers and school administrations. The local partner should be familiar with their needs and requirements and be aware of the type of content that can or cannot be created. The development of a MIL curriculum is a lengthy process that can only lead to success in a close cooperation with partners. Mutual trust, respect for creative freedom and the concerted development of criteria ensure high quality standards. Digital technology and media use are developing rapidly. In order to stay up to date, ongoing training for those who develop the teaching material is essential. Knowledge of local media use and habits are the basis for the development of authentic MIL materials. It is also important to include local examples and address the local media landscape. The fact that Arabic is the language of an entire region has great advantages because close networks ensure sustainability. Embedding the strategies locally is of great value. All across the Arab world, MIL is recognized as a key topic. This is an important time to be part of the development process. The exchange of experiences, e.g. at international conferences, opens up new possibilities. In order to build up sustainable projects, it helps to include official institutions, like ministries. Local partners should be encouraged to establish an ongoing dialogue with state institutions. DW Akademie’s mission is to contribute ideas to make sure that the exchange between partners, authorities and politics thrives. An international exchange with teachers, MIL experts and educational institutions is the key to success. Also, educational trips to Germany strengthen the network and make it clear that there are mutual challenges and everyone benefits from cooperation. Exchange is not a one-way street. cw/msh (dpa, Reuters)