Guatemala's national disaster agency, CONRED, said 192 people were still missing on Tuesday, while the death toll estimate was raised to 75. The director of the disaster agency, Sergio Cabanas, said it was unclear if any of the missing were among those already identified as dead by the forensic agency, Inacif. Many who died are believed to have burned to death or suffocated from the poisonous gases that were released in an eruption on Sunday. The devastation was said to be exacerbated by pyroclastic flow — clouds of high-temperature gas, water, ash and mud that move much faster than lava. Explosive behavior Meanwhile, there were fears that volcanic activity was getting stronger. Rescue teams, police, journalists and others were evacuated from six localities around the Fuego volcano as more molten material began to flow on Tuesday afternoon. Eight to 10 moderate explosions per hour had been reported by the INSIVUMEH vulcanology institute during Tuesday morning as activity increased in the volcano. The INSIVUMEH institute said the ash and mud that started to flow down the slopes of the Volcano of Fire on Tuesday afternoon would be carried by the wind and blown ash could rise to 6,000 meters (20,000 feet) above sea level, posing a threat to air traffic. The main international airport at Guatemala City had been closed on Monday. As the sirens sounded on Tuesday, residents outside the evacuation area were also concerned as little or no warning had been given by authorities ahead of Sunday's eruption. Rescue workers clearing ash from a community near the volcano An estimated 1.7 million people have been affected by the eruptions. National rescue coordination agency CONRED is in charge of the evacuations and finding shelter for people displaced from their homes. It showed how the volcanic material has been flowing through the region. The Volcano of Fire is located about 16 kilometers (9.9 miles) west of the Spanish colonial capital Antigua. It exploded on Sunday in its biggest eruption in more than 40 years. A state of emergency has been declared in the departments of Chimaltenango, Sacatepequez and Escuintla. Three days of mourning were declared in Guatemala following the first eruption, and Pope Francis sent a telegram of condolence on Tuesday with his "consolation to families who are weeping for the loss of their loved ones, as well as spiritual closeness to the wounded and those who are working to help." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yt0X jm,rc/sms (Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.