The storm that came through moved on; only a few dark clouds could be seen in the sky over Oswiecim. A brewing midday heat hung in the air in the garden surrounding the International Youth Meeting Center.  Despite the heat, Christoph Heubner, deputy chairman of the International Auschwitz Committee, appeared calm and cool when he greeted our reporter a few days ago. The media response to his spontaneous outreach to the two controversial rappers, Kollegah and Farid Bang — inviting them to tour the memorial — hadn't surprised him. On Thursday (07.06.2018) it was announced that the two have now actually visited Auschwitz — or Oswiecim, the name the southern Polish city reclaimed after it was liberated from the Nazis, who Germanized the city's name after invading Poland in 1939. From the outset, as Heubner explained to DW beforehand, he had understood that their management planned to make the visit a purely private affair. The artists made their visit without press accompaniment and were not immediately available for comment afterward. Kollegah und Farid Bang Confronting European history Heubner knew that the journey to Poland could not have been easy for Kollegah and Farid Bang. A cancellation would have been out of the question, as it would have just resulted in new headlines, after the duo caused controversy with their anti-Semitic lyrics earlier this year. What is clear is that they in no way wanted to make the visit a media circus. "I have the feeling from our discussions to date that they are partaking on this journey with a bit of trepidation," said Heubner before the visit. A program was drawn up for the visitors, with the two rappers given a private tour of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial. Just being on-site, encountering the place where people from all over Europe were systematically murdered by the National Socialists and burned in crematoriums, would have an impact, said Heubner. "There are many international visitors, people from all over the world," he said. It is impressive "to see that this place is by no means a quiet place on the edge of a forgotten historical world." Rather, it is "a place where very many people come because they want to know something about history." The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. Fifteen members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau, not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, provide details about the people and their date of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, was the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany, in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation from the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon Oswiecim: A place of exchange A few days earlier, the garden was filled with groups of young people. Many talked quietly or drank soda while some sat nearby in small groups, lost in thought. Vocational students from Poland and Germany were visiting Oswiecim — young trainees, including those from the Volkswagen factories in the German cities of Wolfsburg and Salzgitter. Together in an exchange with their Polish counterparts, they were working intensively through a past that still haunts both countries today. The young Germans were in Poland for two weeks. Time enough to also explore the up-and-coming city of Oswiecim, which, despite its burdensome history, is becoming a lively place with a young population. A higher-than-average number of cars advertising driving schools cruise through the streets, and three ice cream parlors, several pizzerias and casual sidewalk cafes liven up the historic market square — known from 1939 to 1945 as Adolf-Hitler-Platz. Christoph Heubner gives the rappers a personal tour The youth meeting center was co-founded by Heubner over 30 years ago as a place of exchange. Auschwitz is something most teens only know from school history lessons; here, the tour through the grounds of the former concentration camp gives the experience another very personal dimension. For half a day, the young people from Germany and Poland also help out in a practical sense, supporting restoration and preservation work at the memorial. Down the road, just 3.5 kilometers (2.2 miles) away, is the former concentration and extermination camp of the National Socialists. Although buses travel there, many visitors prefer to walk. Trucks, motorcycles and the normal rush of traffic thunders past the site day after day. Street signs show the way to the Museum Auschwitz. Clear boundaries for provocation The scandal around Kollegah and Farid Bang's cynical references about the Auschwitz death camp in their lyrics, and the subsequent uproar after they were awarded an Echo, has also occupied the minds of the young people here; Germany's famous music award was discontinued in the wake of the controversy. Henk and Kilic, trainees at VW, came to Auschwitz to learn from the past Niklas Henk and Dogay Kilic, both apprentices at VW and big fans of German rap, came from Salzgitter to spend some time at the International Youth Meeting Center. After the introductory event, both hung out in the garden for a few minutes. They only became aware of the controversial lyrics in the wake of the Echo scandal, Kilic told DW. He could understand the controversy. "There is no question at all" that a line has been crossed, he said. "I'm not in favor of saying that it was just the one line. It was simply a topic where such a comparison should not have been made." Calculated provocation is part and parcel of the rap scene, the young men agree. But there are also German rappers who have been writing songs in response to the rise of the nationalist party Alternative for Germany, said Henk. "This could be something similar, something that gives people food for thought. Something where, in the future, anti-Semitic lyrics will no longer be tolerated — or perhaps more harshly judged." Millions of people visit the Auschwitz memorial every year 'Journey into the unknown' When we talked with them, the young men still had their first visit to the former concentration camp ahead of them, and both were showing mixed feelings about the experience. It's important for VW management that the next generation of workers at the company know what the word "Auschwitz" means in real life, and that they learn from history, Heubner explained. In direct exchange with the young people and through their insights, Heubner has also been inspired in his approach to his work of remembrance. Many of the educational concepts from the 1970s and '80s would not reach today's social media-driven teens. Yet private family histories, or tales told of those deported from their home region, would immediately find an audience, he said. The question is now whether Kollegah and Farid Bang will be able to restore credibility with their fans. "I find it difficult to interpret what they're thinking. I think this trip will be a journey into the unknown for them, because they're unsure of what awaits them — both the outcome and what they will be confronted with," said Heubner. He paused for a moment as he searched for the right words. "Auschwitz is always like looking into a mirror. I always see myself: I am a human being, too. Here, people were tormented. Why Jewish people? Why were Poles imprisoned here? Why were Sinti and Roma killed? Who were the perpetrators?" In that moment, it was possible to see how he is able to reach the young people of today, by transporting Auschwitz to the modern day and taking young people into mind who frequently ask themselves meaningful questions. "What does that mean today — for me personally and for my attitude? These are the questions Kollegah and Farid Bang will have to face," he added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rZ0X