All times in Central European Summer Time (Baikonur is 4 hours ahead). What you need to know: - The Soyuz rocket with Alexander Gerst launched at 1:12 pm without any trouble - For part of the "Horizons" mission, Gerst will have command of the International Space Station (ISS). He'll be the first German commander ever - This is the second time in space for Gerst. He spent roughly six months on the ISS in 2014 3:00 pm: Gerst had created a playlist with songs the crew listened to before the launch. Among the titles: the theme of the "Captain Future" cartoon. Makes you dream of space, doesn't it? With this we say goodbye. Remember, the Soyuz spacecraft is set to arrive at the ISS just after 3 pm CEST on Friday. And on Tuesday, June 12, we will cover a live Q and A session with Gerst from space. You don't want to miss this! 2:31 pm: Here's full video of the launch. Lay back, watch and have your mind blown. 2:16 pm: Wondering what exactly it is Gerst will have to do as head of the "Horizons" mission? We got you covered with our run-down of the tasks of an ISS commander. 2:04 pm: Our reporter Juri Rescheto is at the Baikonur spaceport in Kazakhstan and was able to film Gerst saying goodbye to his loved ones right before the astronauts left for the launch pad. 1:54 pm: The trio has safely made it into orbit and the spacecraft's solar arrays have successfully deployed. Arrival at the ISS is scheduled for Friday afternoon CEST. 1:41 pm: Party like an astronaut! 1:21 pm: Within 8 minutes, the rocket will have to reach a speed of 27,000 kilometers/ 16,777 miles per hour. That's rocket science. 1:13 pm: And they're off! The Soyuz spacecraft carrying Gerst, Prokopyev and Aunon-Chancellor is on its way to the ISS. Safe travels, gute Reise, счастли́вого пути́! 12:57 pm: Astro-Alex is ready for take-off and so are we! If things go as planned it's only 15 more minutes until the launch. 12:48 pm: Our reporters are at the main ESA event for the "Horizons" launch in Berlin. Follow DW Science on Twitter for the latest on the take-off (and other cool science content after today). 12:34 pm: You can now follow launch preparations on the ESA livestream. Less than an hour, folks! 12:22 pm: In keeping with tradition, the Soyuz spacecraft was blessed by an Orthodox priest the day before the launch. Since the 1970s, all crews leaving for the ISS have also watched the same movie ("The White Sun of the Desert," a Russian western) before taking off. And male astronauts urinate on the back right-hand tire of the bus taking them to the launch pad. This tradition originated when cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin relieved himself this way in 1961. A blessing from above 12:12 pm: This is what motivation looks like: 11:47 am: The crew's journey to the ISS will take two days. The trip can be accomplished in just six hours, but for that, the space station has to be in a certain position. The ISS was recently moved to allow for a smooth landing back on Earth of a returning crew, so now Gerst and co will have to orbit the Earth a little bit longer. 11:23 am: Can't wait for take-off? Then check out this livestream from Baikonur. It has some footage from before Gerst and his colleagues entered the spacecraft as well — all in Russian, though. The European Space Agency (ESA) livestream will start one hour before the launch, and of course you'll find the link here as well. 11:10 am: Last-minute preparations are in full swing, with the crew having entered the rocket. Astro-Alex tweeted up until the last minute. 11:00 am: Today's the day! In less than three hours, the Soyuz spacecraft carrying Alexander Gerst, cosmonaut Sergey Prokopyev and US astronaut Serena Aunon-Chancellor will launch from the spaceport in Baikonur, Kazakhstan. Gerst has been to the ISS once before, in 2014. Here are some of the breath-taking pictures he took during his first mission. Let's hope he sends some our way this time around, too! "Hello Berlin, I don't see any borders from up here!" Gerst tweeted on November 9th 2014, the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Apart from conducting a number of experiments in various scientific disciplines, Alexander Gerst had another important mission: to show people on Earth how beautiful and fascinating our "Blue Dot" is. "Words can't describe how it feels flying through an Aurora" - that's how Alexander Gerst described his experience with this natural phenomenon. Although he found it difficult to capture the experience in words, he was able to conduct research into auroras. One aim was to investigate the influence of our planet's electromagnetic forces on electronic devices at the International Space Station. Even on Earth, one rarely gets to see the Aurora Borealis, or Northern Lights. Alexander Gerst was fortunate to get this great shot from space of the Northern Lights in the polar region. It is neither a mountain, nor a vulcano. In fact, this picture taken by Alexander Gerst shows Barringer Meteorite Crater in Arizona. Gerst would often share his photos on social media with the hashtag #geochallenge, challenging the public to try and figure out where the geographical feature might be. It looks like a tiny hole, but actually measures 80 kilometers (50 miles) wide. Despite its interesting appearance, typhoons like this one can cause tremendous damage on the Earth's surface. "From up here it is surprisingly obvious that our world is one connected system," Gerst observed from space. On thing that makes Alexander Gerst's photos so beautiful and fascinating is how they are unstaged, authentic snapshots. In this image, which Gerst tweeted as the saddest photo he's taken yet, explosions and rockets are visible in Gaza and Israel. Gerst's images, including this one of windswept valleys in North Africa, can be compared to previous, similar images. This helps scientists observe changes on the Earth's surface and determine whether they are natural or manmade. The circles on this image are not the work of aliens, but rather irrigated agricultural fields in arid regions of Mexico. Some of Gerst's experiments dealt with food - for example, the astronauts grew edible plants on the space station to see if they could develop methods to use water more efficiently. Some images Gerst took look like the works of a talented painter. This image shows a river in Kazakhstan snaking its way through the landscape. Defunct bends of the river are also visible, and one can imagine how it's likely to change course again in the future. "When light from the Cupola tints ISS orange inside, I can tell we're over Africa without even looking out the window," Gerst had tweeted. The Sahara Desert is perceived to be endless - when one is in it. But as this image of Libya shows, even the sand dunes there have a beginning and an end. Author: Valentin Betz