Volkswagen is preparing to name Bram Schot as interim chief at its Audi unit, according to several media reports on Monday, quoting persons familiar with the matter. The 56-year-old Netherlands-born manager is currently head of Audi's sales and marketing division, and will replace CEO Rupert Stadler. Stadler was detained on Monday on suspicion of fraud in connection with the emisssions-cheating scandal at Audi's parent company Volkswagen. Stadler headed Audi for 11 years and is the first senior executive to be detained in the Dieselgate scandal. On Monday, prosecutors in Munich said that Stadler had appeared before the investigating judge, who ordered him to be remanded in custody. "The arrest warrant is based on concealment of evidence," Munich prosecutors said, adding that Stadler had denied any involvement. Read more: Opinion: How the German car industry self-destructs What we know so far: The Audi probe: Audi has been accused of having sold at least 210,000 diesel-engine cars fitted with cheat software in the US and Europe, starting in 2009. The luxury carmaker is also being investigated for allegations of fraud and illegal product promotion. The investigation is looking into 20 Audi employees. Stadler under investigation: Munich prosecutorsannounced on June 13 that the Audi CEO and another unnamed board member were now part of the investigation. Authorities then carried out a search of Stradler's home. Stadler has been an Audi board member since 2003 and has held its top managerial spot since 2007, two years prior to the alleged emissions-cheating activities. Volkswagen's scandal: Volkswagen (VW) admitted in 2015 that it had used illegal software to cheat on emissions tests in diesel engines. Audi followed its parent company's admission two months later. VW has not commented on his alleged involvement, but in its 2017 annual report, the carmaker said that the decision to install illegal "defeat device" software was made by individuals below the management board level in 2006. Read more: Dieselgate — will class-action lawsuits come to Germans' rescue? How the scandal has affected Germany: The Dieselgate scandal has prompted a lengthy investigation, heavy fines, profit losses and numerous recalls. Consumer confidence has suffered, with diesel cars seeing a decline in sales. Adding to the industry's woes, a landmark ruling by a German court deemed it permissible for cities and communities to implement bans on old diesel. Hamburg became the first city last month to implement such ban. About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was Sept. 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But It wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc jcg/kms (AFP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.