The aim is clear: "We need to be a really strong host," Russian coach Stanislav Cherchesov said recently. "We can't face Germany until the semifinals or finals. If we get that far, I'll be the happiest man in the world." If that were to come to pass, he would have every reason to be. However, it's hard to imagine Russia getting to the latter stages of the tournament. Drawn in a group with Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Uruguay, just getting to the knockout stages will pose a serious challenge for Russia. In view of the team's performances of late, some have even said that Russia look like the worst team ever fielded by a World Cup host nation. While they kept the score close in their 1-0 defeat against Argentina in the autumn, Russia followed this up with a 3-0 defeats to both Brazil and France in March. Last Wednesday, they wrapped up their training camp in Austria by losing 1-0 to that country's national team in Innsbruck, so now the 54-year-old Cherchesov's men have gone six matches without a win. Their final pre-World Cup friendly will be against Turkey in Moscow next Tuesday. Igor Akinfeev had a thankless job against Brazil An uphill battle Cherchesov's job is not an enviable one. Three of his best players; central defenders  Georgi Jikia and Victor Vasin, as well as striker Alexandr Kokorin are all out of action after suffering cruciate ligament ruptures. Two former Bundesliga players have also been in the headlines for the wrong reasons:  Roman Neustädter and Konstantin Rausch were both fined by the Russian FA after being caught out on the town after curfew following the Brazil match. Cherchesov's team is far from the most talented. None of the members of Russia's national side plays for a top European club. The squad is also too old, there's a distinct lack of young talent.  The country's FA is still working on setting up a national scouting and training program. Not much of a history to look back upon Cherchesov, a former goalkeeper with Dynamo Dresden, took over the national team after its disappointing performance at Euro 2016 in France, when the Russians failed to get past the group stage. This was also the case the three times Russia have qualified for the World Cup, in 1994, 2002 and 2014. The only positive surprise was a fourth-place finish at the 2008 European championship. Denis Glushakov (right) and his Russian teammates didn't stand a chance against the Brazilians However, the Russian national team's predecessor, the Soviet Union, were far more successful. The USSR won the European title in 1960 and finished fourth at the 1966 World Cup. In 1988 they got to the final of the European Championship, losing to the Netherlands. Given what he has to work with, Cherchesov tries to get his team to focus on defense first, something that doesn't come naturally. He prefers to play offensive football, with three strikers, but he changed his tactics following the losses to Brazil and France. "We played offensively against Brazil in the second half – and conceded three goals," Cherchesov explained after the France match. "This time we played offensively right from the start - and conceded three goals. This shows that we get into trouble when we try to play offensively against such strong opposition." Cherchesov is now working on tightening up Russia's defense.Could that save his job? Russia have had nine different coaches since 1992 and apart from Oleg Romansev, none has held onto the job for longer than two years. Nobody should be surprised if Russia's World Cup is over after three matches, and even if is, it wouldn't be a first: South Africa failed to advance beyond the group stage when that country hosted the World Cup in 2010. The main stadium, which is home to the Russian national team, has a capacity of 81,000. It will be the venue for both the opening match and the World Cup final, as well as one of the semifinals. The stadium, which has been renovated for the World Cup, has previously hosted a Champions League final and the Summer Olympic Games. The Yekateringburg Arena, which was built in 1953 has been refurbished for the 2018 World Cup. The stadium, with a capacity of 35,000, is the home of FC Ural of the Russian first division. Yekaterinburg is the furthest east of the host cities. The new home of Zenit St. Petersburg holds 68,000 spectators. It is the venue for one of the semifinals and the third-place match. It will also host a game in the last 16 as well as group stage matches, including one of Russia's clashes. Saint Petersburg Stadium was also a venue for the 2017 Confederations Cup. This 44,000 capacity stadium was built for the World Cup on an island south of Samara where no settlements or infrastructure previously existed. This is where hosts Russia will play their final group-stage match. A last-16 match and a quarterfinal will also be played in the stadium, which is to become the home of Krylya Sovetov, currently in the Russian second division, after the tournament. This venue was built on the site of the old Central Stadium in Volgograd near the Volga river. It can hold over 45,000 spectators and will only be used for the group stage. After the World Cup, it will become the home of Rotor Volgograd, a club currently playing in Russia's second division. Volgograd used to be known as Stalingrad. German architect Tim Hupe designed this brand new bowl stadium for the World Cup. The stadium has a capacity of 44,000 and will only host matches in the group stage. After the tournament, the upper seating will be dismantled and the stadium will be handed over to third-tier Russian side Mordovia Saransk. Rostov Arena, with a capacity of 45,000 is one of the new stadiums built specifically for the World Cup. The stadium will host four group-stage games and one match in the last 16. It will become the new home of FC Rostov after next summer's tournament. This 45,000 capacity stadium was built specifically for the World Cup. It will host four group-stage games as well as a round-of-16 match and a quarterfinal. After the tournament, it is expected to become the home ground of Olimpiyets Nizhny Novgorod of the Russian second division, although in March 2017, then-regional governor Valery Shantsev said it would also be used for other sporting events. This is the only World Cup venue in an exclave of Russia — Kaliningrad is a territory between Poland and Lithuania. The 35,000-capacity stadium was built specifically for the World Cup and will be downsized after the tournament. It is only a venue for the group stage and will become the new home of Baltika Kaliningrad, a club in Russia's second division. Though it was used for the Confederations Cup, the Spartak Stadium, with a capacity of 45,000, will only be used for four group-stage games and one first knockout-stage game. The arena was re-opened in 2014 and is the home of Spartak Moscow, Russia's most successful football club. A venue for the Confederations Cup, Kazan Arena will be used for a last 16 game, a quarterfinal and four group stage games. The capacity of the stadium is 41,585. Vladimir Putin laid the cornerstone for the stadium before it opened in 2013. It is the home ground of Rubin Kazan. This 41,220-capacity stadium was constructed for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games. A large section of the roof has been removed to accommodate football. A last 16 match and a quarterfinal will be played here as well as four group games. Author: Davis VanOpdorp