"Fat, lazy and proud of it." Who would have thought that anyone could become a world star with such an attitude? Yet, that's exactly what Garfield has achieved. The character created by US cartoonist Jim Davis debuted 40 years ago, on June 19, 1978, in a comic strip published in 41 newspapers. When a Chicago newspaper tried to drop it after a test run, readers' complaints convinced the editors to reinstate the cartoon in their pages. 'Good times are ahead! Or behind. Because they sure aren't here' According to Paws, Inc., the company Davis launched in 1981, the daily comic strip is published in around 2,400 newspapers in 80 countries and translated into 40 languages, thereby reaching some 200 million people. These numbers led Garfield to make it into The Guinness Book of Records in 2002. Garfield was a media phenomenon way before Youtube and its viral cat videos. The Garfield comic books have sold over 200 million times. 'If you want to look thinner, hang around people fatter than you' The CGI animated TV series, The Garfield Show, launched 10 years ago in France for the 30th anniversary of the character, is another global hit. The fourth season has been sold to broadcasters in 130 countries. On top of the different movies produced over the years, there's the merchandising. From t-shirts and baseball caps to coffee mugs and key chains, there are over 5,000 Garfield products worldwide, earning Paws, Inc. nearly $1 billion in revenue per year. Bill Murray voiced Garfield in the 2004 film 'The most active thing about me is my imagination' Garfield's creator, Jim Davis, grew up on a small farm in Indiana, with his parents, a younger brother and, most importantly, dozens of cats. As a child, he often had to stay at home in bed because of his asthma attacks, and he would draw a lot. He never stopped. 'If you are patient… and wait long enough… Nothing will happen' Davis' first comic strip, Gnorm Gnat, was published in 1972. Focusing on bugs, it never became popular. Because he felt there were so many cartoons with dogs already, Davis was then inspired by the cats he grew up with to come up with a smart, fat cat. He named the figure after his grandfather, whose full name was James Garfield Davis. 'Diet is 'die' with a 't'' "Garfield is an anti-hero," Davis once said. He says and does things we might all do if we knew we could get away with it. To love Garfield is to love the imperfections that make us all human. "Man's best friend" lives in about seven million German households. The arts have provided more than a few iconic canines to remember while the World Dog Show takes place in Leipzig from November 8-12. This smartly dressed blue dog in the painting "Wendy and Me," created by George Rodrique, is so popular that it was once stolen from an art gallery. Humans' ties to dogs dates all the way back to ancient Greece. However, they weren't man's best friend back then. With his three heads, the mythological Cerberus was a horrific sight. He guarded the entrance to the underworld. Heroic Heracles, pictured here, managed to overcome the beast. Nipper, the mascot of the music label EMI Electrola, became famous at the end of the 19th century. He loved the gramophone that belonged to his owner, Francis Barraud. He was a painter and captured the moment in which Nipper got caught up in the music and simply forgot the world around him. Painter Franz Marc loved his Siberian husky, Russi. He painted him in 1911, as he was getting up close as personal with the freezing landscape around him. It became one of his most famous works and can now be seen in Frankfurt's Städelmuseum. This faithful dog Hachikō was not a piece of fiction. In the 1920s in Japan, he waited everyday for his master to come pick him up at the end of the day. When his owner passed away, the dog continued to wait - for nearly a decade. In 1934, a memorial was built to Hachikō and in 2009, his story was turned into a movied starring Richard Gere. Lassie first appeared in a short story in 1938, but her big break came five years later with the film "Lassie Come Home." It was the beginning of unparalleled stardom, even culminating in a star on the Walk of Fame in Hollywood. Her star can be found right next to those of the famed German Shepherd Strongheart and comic dog Rantanplan. Schmaltzy violin music, spaghetti on checkered table cloths and romantic love scenes – "The Lady and the Tramp" (1955) stars two of the most famous animated dogs of all time. They're not the only hounds that Disney has catapulted to stardom, however. In "101 Dalmatians" (1961), just as many spotted puppies take to the screen and "The Fox and the Hound" (1981) features an unusual animal friendship. In the 1989 Hollywood comedy, Hooch the dog turns police offer Scott Turner's life upside down. The slobbering Dogue de Bordeaux is the only witness in a murder and the cop, played by Tom Hanks, has to give him refuge in his own apartment. It takes a while for the two to get used to each other, which is evident in the film's most famous line: "This is not your room." Dogmatix is Obelix's loyal companion in the "Asterix" comic series. He follows his beloved obese Obelix around wherever he goes. He doesn't need any magic potions; his canine instincts are enough to save his master from a variety of tricky situations. Just the thought of a dog bone once helped the whole troop out of an Egyptian tomb. In the world of comic dogs, size isn't a measure of intelligence. Snowy is the clever fox terrier who accompanies reporter Tintin on his exciting journeys around the world. The duo was first created by Belgian illustrator Georges Remi, alias Hergé, in 1929. French artist Thierry Poncelet portrayed people, but with a catch: He gave them dogs' heads. He came up with the idea while painting a wealthy lady whose face was so ugly that Poncelet thought he'd rather paint his dog. While she likely wasn't thrilled, it was the beginning of his artistic trademark. A spooky hound kills one person after another in the Baskerville family. Is it a curse? Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson are on the case in Arthur Conan Doyle's 1902 novel. A relative is after the family's inheritance and has a motive for getting rid of the whole clan. He starved and tortured the poor dog, which made his appearance so eerie. The book was named one of the best-loved novels in the UK. "Otto's Pug" was created by Austrian poet Ernst Jandl in 1963. He wrote a short poem about master Otto who sends his pug away, only to miss him terribly. The dog returns and does what dogs do: He pukes. The poem is required reading in many German schools and has entertained children for decades. A noble dog needs a noble environment. Photographer William Wegman is famous for capturing his Weimaraners in the most luxurious of poses. His images are sold as books and posters. Author: Silke Wünsch / kbm jhi/eg/als (with dpa) 