Chief Executive Elon Musk said Tuesday his company was cutting some 9 percent of jobs across the company. Tesla's latest annual filing last December showed it had 37,543 full-time employees. He added the move was meant to help bring down costs without endangering the critical ramp-up of Tesla's Model 3 sedan production. Musk noted the cuts were part of a simplification scheme promised last month and affecting the carmaker's management structure. Not earning enough "As part of the need to reduce costs and become profitable, we have made the difficult decision to let go of approximately 9 percent of our colleagues," Musk said in an email to staff. "These cuts were entirely from our salaried population and no production associates were included, so this will not affect our ability to reach Model 3 production targets in the coming months." Musk emphasized that Tesla "never made an annual profit," but remained dedicated to clean energy. "But the company will never achieve this mission unless we can demonstrate that we can be sustainably profitable." The CEO announced the company was also cutting a sales agreement with US retailer Home Depot. Tesla sold 33,000 units of its Model X in 2017, according to data from UK-based market researcher JATO Dynamics. That puts the mid-sized luxury car with falcon wing doors in 5th position in the list of last year's best-selling fully electric cars. ...successful nonetheless was the Zotye Zhidou (ZD) from China. Some 42,000 units of the model were shipped last year, with the tiny vehicles becoming increasingly popular in the Asian nation where affordablility can be a universal selling point. Japanese carmaker Nissan introduced its Nissan Leaf back in 2010, banking on e-mobility at an early stage. The five-door hatchback proved the third most sold all-electric vehicle in 2017 (46,000 units). Leaf batteries can be charged to 80-percent capacity in 30 minutes. Tesla Model S cars are able to pick up speed very rapidly thanks to their all-electric powertrain technology. The vehicle features autopilot capabilities, making driving safer and less stressful. Some 47,000 people bought the Model S last year — only one model reached even more buyers. ...China's BAIC EC. The compact electric city vehicle has fared well especially in its home market due to its trendy design and an improved range of 200 kilometers (125 miles) per charge. A record 78,000 units left the showrooms in 2017. Author: Hardy Graupner hg/jd (Reuters, AFP, dpa)