Match report to follow shortly. France 1 - 0 Peru (Mbappe 34') Despite showcasing his silky skills, Kylian Mbappe's decisive goal against Peru could scarcely have been more mundane. An Olivier Giroud shot was deflected by a defender, bounced over Peru's goalie, and Mbappe was on hand to make sure. Giroud's addition to France's attacking line provided a focal point against a physical Peru, freeing up Antoine Griezmann to play a more creative game. France might have scored several in an impressive first half, only to go off the boil after the break. Peru even rattle Hugo Lloris' post around the hour mark and former Schalke star Jefferson Farfan also hit the side netting as the team fought for its World Cup survival. The three points mean France will progress to the last 16, but not necessarily as group winners. With two defeats in two, Peru cannot progress. Denmark are second in Group C on four points, but Australia could still dream of making it through, if the French do them a favor and best Denmark in their final group match. As it happened... FULL TIME! 90+4' Ngolo Kante wins possession in midfield for what feels like the thousandth time. That was probably that. 90+1' Four additional minutes. Peru need at least a point to stay alive. 85' Corner for Peru, almost all their outfielders went up for it, but the delivery wasn't up to snuff. 82' Dembele fires wide of goal after an Olivier Giroud nod-down. After all that first-half pizzazz, that was France's first real chance since the break. 78' Ousmane Dembele has come on in Kylian Mbappe's place for the last few minutes. 74' Side netting Jefferson Farfan! Farfan arrived at the back post to meet Carrillo's cross, but the angle was really tough. Not quite as close as it looked in real time, to be honest. 70' The fire has gone out somewhat in this one now. Peru came close with a long shot that clattered off the post, and France have been struggling to make inroads of late, with many of their attacks running through Blaise Matuidi on the left flank. 61' Peru are starting to put up a fight, but keep falling at the final hurdle. A lovely pass just now released Farfan down the inside-left channel; he couldn't pick out a cross. 56' France have started the second period similarly strongly but are yet to carve out a real chance despite their territorial supremacy. 46' Second half is off and running. HT analysis: Just the one goal, but a very impressive half from France, who have demonstrated pace and penetration in equal measure. Pogba, Griezmann and Mbappe have all been expressing themselves out there, while Giroud offers a focal point for the attack lacking when little Griezmann has to lead the line by himself. The only disappointment for the French might be their failure to finish this game off before half time. HALF TIME 45+1' Two additional minutes this half. 43' Two bites at the cherry for Hernandez, arriving on the left to latch onto a Griezmann pass. Both shots were palmed to safety by the keeper. France might be a little disappointed not to have a two-goal cushion at the break. 39' Mbappe's pace nearly unlocks the door again. He bursts clear on the right, works the ball on to Griezmann, who looks for Giroud for the final touch. Only then, when seeking the slower striker, was Giroud just a step behind the ball. Might Dembele have got there? 34' The original shot was Olivier Giroud's, but it took a big deflection, bounced over the keeper, and Mbappe was on hand to make sure and slot the ball into an unguarded net. 34' GOAL! France lead. Kylian Mbappe. 33' Paul Pogba with an inspired chipped pass over the and Mbappe tries to backheel it home to no avail. 30' Huge chance for Peru after excellent work from Cueva down the left flank. Lloris did well to save a powerful low shot from Guerrero with his feet. 27' The action's calmed after France's repeated knocking on the Peruvian door around 10 minutes ago. 16' Blaise Matuidi goes in the book. 16' Penalty appeal, waved away. Mbappe was bursting into the box. 14' A flurry of French chances, most recently Raphael Varane heading just off target. The center back was up for a corner. 13' Kylian Mbappe and slow motion replays are a match made in heaven. We just had a tasty recap of his early dribbling trickery. 12' Paul Pogba goes close with his right from range. 11' France are yet to settle in this one. For the first time they complete a move and reach the penalty area. Giroud fed Griezmann, arriving off the big man's shoulder, and he fired over the bar. 6' Peru spy Hugo Lloris off his line and try a shot from near the half-way line. Ten out of 10 for imagination, more like a four for execution. KICK OFF! We now know how both teams will line up. Two big changes for France as Matuidi replaces Tolisso and Olivier Giroud is introduced as an out-and-out striker. It's Ousmane Dembele making space for the Chelsea man, Griezmann and Mbappe will play off Giroud. Bundesliga watch VfB Stuttgart defender Benjamin Pavard is at his first international tournament with France and is set to start again at right-back. Bayern Munich's Corentin Tolisso started in midfield against Australia but faces competition from Blaise Matuidi. Ex-BVB star Ousmane Dembele, now at Barcelona, is one of France's most dangerous attackers. Peru veteran Jefferson Farfan scored 39 goals in 170 appearances for Schalke 04 and now plays his football for Russian champions Lokomotiv Moscow. He leads the line for Peru — but 39-year-old Cologne striker Claudio Pizarro has retired from international football. Welcome to DW's live coverage of the World Cup Group C clash between France and Peru Despite beating Australia in their opening fixture, France's highly talented squad is under pressure to perform. An Antoine Griezmann penalty and a deflected Paul Pogba strike (awarded as an own goal by FIFA) gave France a 2-1 win but les Bleus, also featuring Raphael Varane, Samuel Umtiti, Kylian Mbappe, Ousmane Dembele, Corentin Tolisso and Nabil Fekir, struggled for fluidity for long periods. Peru's colorful supporters have made a big impression off the pitch in Russia so far and their team impressed as well against Denmark, despite ultimately losing 1-0. The South Americans created a host of chances — Andre Carrillo and Edison Flores were particularly dangerous — but couldn't put the ball in the net, Christian Cueva even missing a penalty.