Julien's Auctions had put the famed sci-fi weapon on display in New York last month. The New York auction house said Robert Ripley's franchise Believe It or Not bought the item on Saturday. The auction was held at Planet Hollywood casino resort. For more than 30 years the blaster pistol had been part of the belongings of James Schoppe, art director of the hugely popular Star Wars film, which was released in 1983.  Read more: Star Wars: The Story of Han Solo set for take-off For Star Wars fans, May 4 is a day to celebrate. The famous line — "May the force be with you" — was first heard when the movie was screened in 1977. It didn't take long for the Star Wars community to make a pun out of it. And so, May 4 came to be known as Star Wars day — "May the 4th be with you." On May 25, 1977, the first Star Wars film was shown in cinemas. In the US, "Star Wars" was sold out for weeks. Hoping to snag a seat, audiences diligently lined up outside cinemas as shown here in Los Angeles. At that time, no one could have expected the series to span decades. Obi Wan Kenobi utters this famous line to Luke Skywalker just before he is sent on a difficult mission. With the help of the "force," Luke is able to fight the empire on behalf of the Rebel Alliance. The empire has been threatening the entire galaxy with its planet-destroying Death Star space station. Forty years ago, audiences first heard the Jedi leader utter this unforgettable sentence. Jedi master Yoda teaches Luke Skywalker how to harness the power of the "force." Using spiritual strength, it allows jedis to move objects with their minds. Yoda also trained Luke's father Anakin. Yoda sent him on his way with these wise words: "Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. Hate leads to suffering." Anakin ignored the wisdom of Yoda and allowed himself to be seduced by the dark side of the force. He became Darth Vader, the vicious right hand of the even more evil emperor. In "Star Wars - Return of the Jedi," Darth Vader fights Luke Skywalker and shocks him by saying: "Luke, I am your father." He is the one responsible for manipulating young Anakin Skywalker and convincing him to join the dark side. "I can feel your anger. It makes you stronger," he says after killing a Jedi before Anakin's eyes. "Become my apprentice. Learn to use the dark side of the force." The emperor also assures him he will be a good Sith lord and gives him the name Darth Vader. Golden C3PO and navigation droid R2D2 are the legendary robot pair featured in the Star Wars saga. Together, they sometimes resemble an old married couple, mainly due to C3PO, who takes every chance he can get to cheekily scold the smaller droid. "You'll be malfunctioning within a day, you nearsighted scrap pile," he tells R2D2. This is what Luke Skywalker said about his twin sister Leia long before he knew that they were related. The droid R2D2 brought Obi Wan Kenobi a plea for help from Leia in the form of a hologram. "Help me Obi Wan, you're my only hope," she famously says. Luke is fascinated, and accompanies Obi Wan to Alderaan, Leia's home planet. Star Wars fans have known for 40 years that the episode dates cause narrative confusion. After Episodes IV to VI were released between 1977 and 1983, George Lucas told the back-story in episodes I to III, which premiered between 1999 and 2005. The latest film "Rogue One" (2016), takes place between episodes III and IV. George Lucas left the saga in the hands of Disney. The new series has won over new fans and places Episode VII (2015) in a familiar setting. Thirty years have passed since the rebels' victory over the empire and while new villains have appeared, so has Rey — a new heroine. It is assumed that she is the daughter of a Jedi knight, since she feels the force. Author: Silke Wünsch (sh) Martin Nolan, the auction house's executive director, said Schoppe, an Oscar nominee for his work on Star Wars: Return of the Jedi, finally decided to sell Han Solo's gun and about 40 other items from the movie, including an Ewok axe and plans for Jabba the Hutt's ship. The blaster sold for $550,000 (€471,000), topping the $450,000 auction previously fetched by Skywalker's lightsaber from the first two Star Wars films. Julien's said the Ewok axe was auctioned for $11,250 while another blaster from the movie got $90,624. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2znWS Last year, an R2-DW from several Star Wars films sold for $2.76 million. Other items at Saturday's auction included a Superman III movie costume worn by Christopher Reeve and a dress worn by Marilyn Monroe. Read more: Solo: A Star Wars Story celebrated at Cannes Before the auction kicks off, bidders can take a look around New York's Hard Rock Cafe to see what's up for auction. The yellow guitar is of course an eye-catcher, but more on that later... This eye-catching white suit was worn by Prince in 2003 during a gig in Hong Kong. The musician was legendary for his imaginative outfits. Now, fans have the chance to bid on several of them at the auction in New York's Hard Rock Café – that is, if they have the necessary cash. These pantsuits were favored by Prince during his Purple Rain era. You can see them in the exhibition My Name is Prince, currently on display in Amsterdam. Fans can't bid on these pieces, but not to worry: Julien's has many colorful outfits on offer, including a blue one the superstar wore at his millennium party, estimated at $70,000. Whether red, green, blue, patterned or embroidered with glitter: Prince had a collection of footwear that would make some women pale with envy. The items belonged to Prince's first wife, dancer Mayte Garcia, who left them to Julien's Auctions. This yellow cloud guitar, which owes its name to its whimsical shape, is sure to make fans' hearts beat faster, and is the highlight of the auction. Julien's values it at around $80,000 (€68,000), but when the bidding war starts, the final price will probably be much higher. In 2017, a similar guitar was sold for $700,000. The musician wore this hat with chains on the cover of his album My Name Is Prince. Unmistakable is its "Love Symbol," which is also the name of his 14th album. The figure itself combines traditional symbols of man and woman, Prince once explained. The love symbol is unmistakable on the tip of this walking stick, which is embellished with diamonds. The fancy item also made an appearance in the video for the song "Fix Ur Life Up." The upcoming auction will determine whether the diamond accessory is worth as much to fans as it was to Prince himself. Author: Suzanne Cords (sh) shs/tj  (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.