Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Thursday said the Visegrad Group – comprising Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic – has agreed to bolster the EU's external borders and process migrants outside the bloc. Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said Frontex, the EU's border management agency, should be strengthened to better deal with the challenges of irregular migration to the bloc. Babis proposed significantly bolstering Frontex's capacity by increasing staff to 10,000 people. He added that he was in agreement with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on using Frontex to strengthen the bloc's external borders. "We have to have a Europe capable of defending us," said Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who was invited to the Visegrad group meeting. "We have to strengthen Frontex, to protect our external border and ensure internal freedom." Visegrad countries have proposed processing migrants at centers outside the EU Brussels boycott After the meeting, Orban announced that Visegrad countries would also boycott a mini-summit on migration organized by the European Commission for Sunday. Read more: Opinion: Orban remains leader of the intractable eastern EU He said the meeting should have instead been convened by the European Council, especially when it brings together the EU's political leaders. "We understand there are domestic political difficulties in some countries but that cannot lead to pan-European haste," Orban said following a meeting between Visegrad countries and Austria. Tensions across EU The Visegrad group's decision comes at a tense moment in the EU concerning irregular migration. EU member states have been locked in a heated debate on how to move forward on migration, with several countries rejecting relocation quotas. The Visegrad group, along with Austria, has been critical of Merkel's open-door policy to refugees. More than 1 million migrants entered the EU in 2015 during the height of the migration crisis, many of them fleeing conflict and extreme poverty in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. The migration wave also spurred a political crisis between member states, with some – including Visegrad countries – refusing to resettle migrants from front-line countries such as Italy and Greece. Read more: The east-west divide in the EU deepens In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticised by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/rc (Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.