Italy's new Interior Minister Matteo Salvini on Sunday told a crowd of supporters in Pozzallo that his government would use "common sense” to stop Italy and Sicily becoming "Europe's refugee camp." Due to the Dublin Regulation, Italy has taken the brunt of asylum seeker applications and is required to take on the responsibility of accepting or rejecting them. Read more: Italy's rising populism leaves refugee aid workers worried over immigration reform What Salvini said: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qXLf Locals protest anti-migrant stance Salvini, who is also the deputy prime minister in Italy's new coalition government, is touring the country to rally support for his party's candidates in municipal elections later this month. The Sicilian town of Pozzallo, where Salvini delivered his speech, is one of the main points of entry for refugees trying to escape war, persecution and famine across North Africa and the Middle East. Some Sicilians protested Salvini's visit to the so-called migrant "hot spot" — the docking point for many of the ships that rescue migrants crossing the Mediterranean Sea in smugglers' boats. Protesters held a banner reading "Refugees welcome" and shouted "Salvini, go home!" and "Salvini, shame on you." Pozzallo Mayor Roberto Ammatuna rejected Salvini's claim that the island was "a refugee camp of Europe," saying, "Here there are beaches full and tourists." Read more: Is Europe doing enough to protect human rights? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cMDy Potential reforms to Dublin Regulation: The European Union's interior ministers are set to meet on Tuesday to discuss potential reforms to the Dublin regulation. Salvini said he would not be attending, due to a confidence vote in the Italian parliament on the new coalition with Five Star. He has previously said the rule places an unfair burden on Mediterranean countries and creates "an obvious imbalance in management, numbers and costs." Read more: Opinion: EU panic over Italian populism only exacerbates tension What the Dublin Regulation does: The regulation was designed to quickly determine which EU member state was responsible for processing an asylum seeker. Under the regulation, the country the person arrives in is responsible for accepting or rejecting their asylum application. The main objectives of the agreement are to prevent applications from being submitted in multiple member states and to prevent the number of asylum seekers who are moved from state to state. Why the Dublin Regulation has hit Italy hardest: Before the agreement was in place, the majority of refugees arriving in Italy would continue their journeys to northern Europe, but the introduction of EU-backed processing centers to ensure migrants are identified at their first entry point in Europe along with stricter border controls implemented by France, Switzerland and Austria have created barriers along this well-worn route. How Italy is combatting the situation: Italy's former center-left government and authorities and militias in Libya made a controversial agreement that has resulted in a dramatic decrease in the overall number of arrivals since the summer of 2017. While the amount of arrivals fell 75 percent, in 2018 Italian authorities have still registered more than 13,500 arrivals. law/aw (AFP, AP) Giuseppe Conte, a little-known law professor with no political experience, was picked by the League and 5-Star Movement (M5S) as their candidate for prime minister. He was forced to temporarily give up his leadership bid after the parties' cabinet selection was initially blocked. However, after the two parties struck a deal with President Sergio Mattarella, Conte was eventually sworn in on June 1. President Sergio Mattarella faced calls for his impeachment after he prevented the populist alliance from taking office. He singled out its choice for finance minister, Paolo Savona, warning that an openly euroskeptic minister in that position went against the parties' joint promise to simply "change Europe for the better." After the parties agreed to replace Savona, Mattarella gave the go-ahead. M5S chief Luigi Di Maio secured his party 32 percent of the vote in the March election. With the populist M5S-League coalition in power, Di Maio assumed the role of joint deputy prime minister and took over the economic development portfolio. The M5S leader has come under fire for his anti-immigration rhetoric, including calling rescue missions to save migrants from drowning a "sea-taxi service." Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in the March election. A former MEP, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini has taken on the position of interior minister within Conte's Cabinet. Known for his hostile rhetoric toward immigrants and the EU, Salvini once described the euro a "crime against humanity." Paola Savona, initially tipped to lead the Finance Ministry, has called the euro a "German cage" and said that Italy needs a plan to leave the single currency. The 81-year-old's stance won him the backing of most Italian lawmakers but that wasn't enough to stop his appointment being vetoed. In his place steps Giovanni Tria, an economics professor without any previous government experience. Carlo Cottarelli was set to become Italy's caretaker prime minster after the M5S-League alliance failed to have its controversial cabinet picks approved. The former IMF economist's time in the spotlight was short-lived, however. Political uncertainty in Italy rocked Europe's financial markets and prompted Mattarella to swiftly renegotiate and approve Salvini and Di Maio's governing coalition. Silvio Berlusconi (right) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electoral alliance including League in the March election that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinizing opposition." Author: Chase Winter