A rescue boat stranded for days in the Mediterranean carrying over 200 migrants was finally allowed to dock in the capital of Malta, Valletta on Wednesday. The Lifeline, a vessel for German NGO Mission Lifeline, had been waiting to be allocated a port for six days after rescuing 234 migrants off the coast of Libya last Thursday. Both Italy and Malta had previously refused to grant entry to the ship. In a tweet, the organization said that many passengers were suffering from seasickness and three were in the ship's hospital facility. One passenger had been evacuated, leaving 233 currently on board. On Wednesday the boat was given permission "to enter Maltese waters" to shelter from deteriorating weather conditions and high winds, the charity tweeted . Muscat said that once in port, the ship would be impounded and the crew placed under investigation for allegedly operating illegally — including violating rescue protocols and operating without the correct registration. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30M0f A total of eight European Union member states have agreed to take in the migrants currently aboard the ship, according to Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat. Besides Malta, the countries are France, Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, the Netherlands and Belgium, said Muscat in a news conference. Muscat did not mention Germany, whose Interior Minister Horst Seehofer has said the country could take in some people on condition that the Lifeline ship is taken out of action. "We have to stop this from setting a precedent," Seehofer said in Berlin, referring to Lifeline. Press reports said Germany, however, had not agreed to participate in the deal, a stance which the NGO co-founder blamed on the country's hardline Interior Minister Horst Seehofer. Lifeline is run by a non-governmental organization (NGO) based in Dresden called Mission Lifeline. The ship has been stranded at sea since June 21, when Italy and Malta both refused to let it enter their ports. Resistance to accepting migrants The refusal by Italy and Malta to open their ports to the ship — and the haggling among EU states over how to distribute the migrants — showed a hardening of positions as EU leaders head into a summit where migration policies are expected to be debated. EU nations have hardened their stance against accepting refugees Earlier this month, Italy and Malta both refused to let a French humanitarian ship dock, which forced some 630 migrants to travel an additional 1,500 kilometers (900 miles) to Spain. Manuel Sarrazin, a politician with the German Green party who is in regular contact with the Lifeline crew and its supporters, said the situation on board was deteriorating. "Last night they were close to calling emergencies to evacuate two people," Sarrazin told the AP news service. "Doctors on board were able to stabilize them so the evacuation, which would have been very dangerous, didn't have to take place." The standoff comes ahead of an EU summit at which Italy will propose a new system for distributing migrants more evenly among EU countries. There will also be discussions about ways to discourage economic migrants from leaving Africa. Italy and Greece have borne the brunt of the arrivals in recent years as people make the dangerous sea journey to seek a better life in Europe, often seeking war and oppression. av/aw (dpa, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.