A meeting between South Sudan's rebel leader Riek Machar and the country's President Salva Kiir continued into the night on Wednesday and was expected to continue Thursday, with details of the talks yet to be revealed. Many efforts at making peace have fallen through, but these latest talks, hosted by Ethiopia, are the first time the leaders have met in almost two years. Read more: South Sudan: Starvation and violence  The meeting so far More than 30,000 people live in the Protection of Civilians (PoC) site in Juba, capital of South Sudan. Around 7,000 are children who have lost contact with their parents. The NGO Nonviolent Peaceforce is trying to reunite them. The first step is to establish a child's identity and then to collect as much information as possible which could assist in locating the parents. This data is placed online and can be accessed by all international organizations working in child protection in South Sudan. If the search for the family proves fruitless, or if the child has been orphaned, foster parents are found. In South Sudan, Nonviolent Peaceforce focuses on the protection of women and children, who rarely participate in armed conflict, but are disproportionately affected by it. To this end, Nonviolent Peaceforce is forming all-female Women's Peacekeeping Teams, specially trained in tackling sexual and gender-based violence. As well as training, the Women's Peacekeeping Teams are also given follow-up support as they seek to prevent sexual and gender-based violence. The teams liaise with women in the communities, helping them to identify risks and counter them. The teams are also in contact with authorities so that culprits can be held accountable for their actions. The civil war began as a political dispute, but it has reopened ethnic fault lines between the Dinka people of President Salva Kiir and the Nuer of rebel leader Riek Machar . Ulang in Upper Nile State is dominated by the Nuer. It was attacked by government in troops in May 2015 and dozens were killed. The once tranquil region found itself caught up in conflict. Nonviolent Peaceforce runs a child protection project in Ulang, one of six in South Sudan. These projects vary in accordance with local needs. In Ulang, community volunteers ensure that the children have access to recreation and sports. At Ulang's Kopuot Primary School, children are playing a game of soccer as part of a child protection project. The building in the background is pockmarked with bullet holes, an ever-present reminder that the school was a target for government troops during their May offensive. All teaching materials and other supplies at the school were destroyed in the government offensive. But now, in makeshift classrooms, the struggle to acquire an education goes on. Author: Fellipe Abtreu Author: The significance of the meeting: The two have not met since July 2016, when heavy fighting in the capital Juba saw the collapse of a 2015 peace deal and Machar fleeing to South Africa. The 2015 peace deal: In August 2015, President Kiir signed a peace deal with the rebels after the UN threatened the country with sanctions. The agreement stated fighting would immediately stop, military forces would leave the capital Juba, and the rebels would be given the post of "first vice-president." Efforts to revive the peace deal led to a ceasefire in December 2017, which lasted only a few hours before both sides accused each other of breaking it. Read more: Opinion: South Sudan's peace deal will fail What sparked the civil war: The landlocked state of South Sudan gained independence from Sudan in 2011 after a long war. The moment was praised around the world, but in 2013, Kiir accused Machar, who was his vice president, of plotting a coup against him, and violence erupted between the two factions, feeding on the country's brooding ethnic tensions. Read more: Opinion: Stop the violence, fix the famine Humanitarian crisis: The war has claimed at least 50,000 lives and displaced 4 million people from their homes. Protracted fighting has plagued the country with food insecurity; famine was declared in several regions in 2017. In late May, British charity Oxfam called for urgent action to prevent millions of people from starving. UN threatens sanctions: In May, the UN Security Council gave the two warring sides one month to reach a peace deal or be subject to sanctions.The US was a critical backer of South Sudan during its separation from Sudan, and continues to be its biggest aid donor. But in June, a UN official threatened parties on both sides of the conflict with sanctions after a report from a US foundation, The Sentry, found South Sudanese elites were profiting from human rights abuses. aw, law/sms (AFP, Reuters)