The Amsterdam appeals court on Tuesday ruled that a group of British expats were unable to continue with a case aimed at securing their rights after Brexit. The group had hoped to argue they had acquired independent rights as European Union citizens by living in the Netherlands for so long, but the court ruled the case was inadmissible in its current form. The expats, some of whom have lived in the Netherlands for decades, maintained that they should retain rights and freedoms, such as theright to free movement and residence. However, the court agreed with the Dutch government, which had argued at a hearing in April that the case was "inadmissible" and "groundless." In its verdict on Tuesday, the appeal court said the issues raised by the five Britons named in the case were "not concrete enough" and too vague. As a result, it said, the case could not be forwarded to the European Court of Justice (ECJ). However, the court did rule that the position of Britons living in the EU after Brexit should, indeed — as a matter of EU law — be decided by the ECJ. Read more: 'Brexit meltdown' possible, but don't panic, says UK's Boris Johnson Stephen Huyton, one of the plaintiffs, expressed disappointment at the decision. "This case has always been about seeking clarification. Not only for the 46,000 Brits living in the Netherlands, but also for the 1.2 million Brits living in other EU countries. Given today's judgment much uncertainty remains," said Huyton. Previous ruling by lower court Christiaan Alberdingk Thijm, the lawyer representing the plaintiffs, said there was a positive side to the verdict, namely that the court had said the issues should, in principle, be decided by the European Court of Justice (ECJ). That followed an Amsterdam lower court's ruling in February that asked the ECJ to consider whether Britons would automatically lose their European citizenship and, if so, under what conditions. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qUpG "It is now confirmed in two instances that only the CJEU can determine what Brexit means for my clients. I urge all court in the EU to bring these issues to the CJEU as soon as possible," said Thijm. "Brits in the EU are entitled to legal certainty about their citizenship rights upon which they have to build their lives." Read more: Young Europeans believe in the EU, fear Donald Trump The case was brought by the individuals and the associations Brexpats and Commercial Anglo Dutch Society, who had claimed that the Dutch State must respect their EU rights after a Brexit. Britain is set to leave the EU on March 29, 2019, having agreed an outline deal including a preliminary commitment to protect citizens' rights. However, the extent to which they are would depend on the outcome of more detailed negotiations later this year, with a chance still remaining that no deal will be struck. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. The former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline splits talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2. Talks will now focus on a transition period and the future trading relationship between the two sides. While the Britain's Theresa May expressed her delight, European Council President Donald Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks will be "dramatically difficult." Author: Alexander Pearson Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.