The 2018 World Cup marked high hopes for the Arab world. It was the first time four teams from the region — Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt and Saudi Arabia — had participated in football's premier international tournament. But those hopes were quickly crushed after the tournament kicked off this month in Russia, with all four of the teams failing to qualify out of the group stage. Read more: Russian press on the World Cup: Joyful foreign fans praised from different political views On social media, Arab fans joked that FIFA stands for "Football is not for Arabs." Another fan said that "Arab countries always differ in everything but agree to leave the World Cup together." Saudi Arabia: 'Everything takes time' Saudi Arabia suffered a 5-0 defeat to hosts Russia to open the World Cup, a result that would become an ominous sign for how fellow Arab nations would perform in the the rest of the tournament. They went on to fall 1-0 to Uruguay in their next match. On Monday, Saudi Arabia finally scored their first goal in the 95th minute of their 2-1 victory over Egypt. It was a major win for Saudi Arabia, as most of their players only play for domestic clubs. "They will be able to tell their children and grandchildren: I scored during a World Cup," Antonio Pizzi, the Saudi team's Argentinian coach told the AFP news agency after the match. Saudi Arabia and Egypt finished third and fourth in their group respectively. The Saudis will now focus on next year's Asian Cup, which is hosted by the United Arab Emirates. "We need to keep working, we need to be patient, we need to support the team. Nothing can be achieved from one day to another, everything takes time," Pizzi said. Tunisia: 'We did not disappoint the Arab World' On Saturday, Tunisia coach Nabil Maaloul said he felt the "eyes of the Arab World" were on his team as they faced off against Belgium. They had previously lost 2-1 in their opening match against England on June 23. Tunisia was the last team with a chance to qualify for the round of 16, but they needed to defeat Belgium. In yet another disappointment, they lost 5-2 to their heavily-favored European opponents. Maaloul, however, praised his team's fighting spirit. "We did not disappoint the Arab World. We did not give up on our Arab fans," he told the Associated Press news agency. Tunisia's hopes for the round of 16 were dashed by Belgium Maaloul believes that Arab countries have "common problems" when it comes to their teams in the World Cup. "I think we need to change change our lifestyle, because it is not in line with high-level football. We need to change the way we train. I am not giving up but I think we need two more generations to reach the required level of performance. In terms of fitness and physical strength, we are far from a high level," he said. He noted that Arab countries need to work on cultivating strong players that can start professional training at ages 12 and 13. Egypt: Hopes overshadowed Salah controversy? The Egyptian national team's losses to both Uruguay (1-0) and Russia  (3-1) were overshadowed by a controversy surrounding its star player Mohamed Salah, who received "honorary citizenship" from Ramzan Kadyrov, the head of the Chechen republic, where the Egyptian team's camp was based. "Mohamed Salah thanked us for the surprisingly warm and good reception, excellent attitude to the team, excellent living conditions and training," Kadyrov wrote on Russian social networking site VKontakte. Kadyrov has been criticized for his government's use of torture and its detention of members of the LGBT community. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zrBz Salah claimed in an interview with broadcaster CNN that he was used as a political instrument by Kadyrov and expressed the possibility of leaving the Egyptian team. Chloe Teevan, a coordinator of the Middle East/North Africa program at the European Council, told DW that Egyptians are expressing "extreme anger" regarding the idea of Salah, who led English giants Liverpool to the Champions League final this past season but struggled with an injury at the World Cup, leaving the team. In a time of economic uncertainty and frustration for Egyptians, particularly the country's youth, Salah was a source of hope and pride for many working class people. Some Egyptians, Teevan noted, now believe in a conspiracy that Egyptian President Abdul Fatah el-Sissi set up the meeting between Kadyrov and Salah in order to oust the star striker from the team. These Egyptians have now taken to social media to blame el-Sissi and to also express their general grievances with his government.  "El Sissi is destroying the best thing in Egypt," one Egyptian Twitter user said regarding Salah's possible departure. "That man [el-Sissi] really needs to leave the country," the user added, including a trending Arabic hashtag regarding the controversy, which translates to "Leave El-Sissi."  "El-Sissi has called to impose a 10 percent tax on my income of 800 Egyptian pounds ($45, €39) a month. I am speechless," Twitter user Said El Boshi said, also using the "Leave el-Sissi" hashtag.  Karim Zidan, a Canadian journalist for sports news website SB Nation, also believes the meeting between Salah and Kadyrov was staged. He blames the Egyptian Football Association, which is supervised by the Egyptian government, for basing the team in Chechnya and allowing the meeting to happen. Morocco: 'Savoring the moment' On Monday, Morocco also failed to progress after a 2-2 draw against Spain. The team opened the tournament with a 1-0 loss to Iran and fell by the same scoreline to Portugal. Read more: Morocco's failed World Cup bid: A blow to the economy? "We would have loved to get a win over Spain, this is why we came here tonight. We suffered just like any other team that takes on Spain," Morocco's French coach, Herve Renard, told Reuters news agency. He said that for now, his players were "savoring the moment" and will examine the team's future later on. It all happened in a matter of seconds, but it was the moment football fans around the world had been waiting for. Ever Banega supplied the pin-point pass and, two sublime touches later, Lionel Messi was picking out the top corner with his weaker foot. After being late to the party in the group stages, Argentina's star man has a chance to make amends with France to come in the Round of 16. After having a doping ban temporarily lifted in order to feature at the World Cup in Russia, Paolo Guerrero assisted Peru's first and scored their second in a 2-0 win over Australia. It was a true captain's performance, helping Peru secure their first World Cup win since beating Iran back in 1978. Cristiano Ronaldo was at the heart of a series of VAR incidents as Portugal drew 1-1 with Iran, finishing as runners-up in Group B. CR7 had a penalty saved by Ali Beiranvand and also picked up a yellow following a review as Iran's players called for him to be sent off for an incident with Morteza Pouraliganji. A tough end to a what had been a glittering group stage campaign. Harry Kane scored a first-half hat trick for England in their 6-1 win over Panama in Group G. The Tottenham Hotspur striker already has five goals in the tournament, putting him in the running for the golden boot. Panama also made history scoring their first ever goal at a World Cup courtesy of Felipe Baloy. Toni Kroos curls home Germany's 95th-minute winner against Sweden. Despite a positive start in Sochi, the same carelessness which had been so costly against Mexico was present again, and Kroos was a major culprit. But the Real Madrid star demonstrated all his experience and class with this free-kick to spare the reigning champions' blushes. Xherdan Shaqiri celebrates his dramatic stoppage time winner over Serbia by making an Albainian eagle gesture with his hands. He and fellow goalscorer Granit Xhaka, who also made the gesture, are of Albanian descent, their families having fleed to Switzerland during the Balkan war. The pair were booed throughout by the match by Serbia fans. If Germany have it bad after their defeat to Mexico, Argentina's second match against Croatia put the giants in dire straits. Slumping to a 3-0 defeat, triggered by a goalkeeping howler, Lionel Messi and co. no longer have their group stage fate in their own hands. Messi, 30, has already "retired" briefly from international football once before; if he goes to Qatar, it surely won't be at his peak. Disgraced former FIFA president Sepp Blatter made a shock appearance as Portugal beat Morocco 1-0 on Wednesday. The 82-year-old said he was invited to the tournament by Russian President Vladimir Putin. His successor Gianni Infantino was also at the fixture, according to FIFA's list of dignitaries. "I am still president, just suspended," Blatter told Russian channel RT. Less than a month after the Champions League final, when he sustained a shoulder injury that some thought could threaten his World Cup, Mohamed Salah returned to the pitch. Liverpool's Egyptian king first drew a foul that led to a penalty and then converted from the spot. But it was a mere consolation as Egypt lost 3-1 to hosts Russia and lost their chance of progressing to the knockout stage. Harry Kane scored England's first ever second-half stoppage time World Cup goal to give the Three Lions all three points against Tunisia. Kane had given England a deserved early lead before Tunisia equalized with a controversial penalty. But captain Kane popped up again in injury time with a back-post header to win it for Gareth Southgate's team. Germany lost their first match at a World Cup for the first time since 1982, when West Germany lost 2-1 to Algeria. This time they fell 1-0 to Mexico. Joachim Löw's men were beaten by a better organized and more energetic Mexican side. Even Germany's No. 1, Manuel Neuer, couldn't prevent the defeat. Undeterred by the driving rain, Icelandic fans in Reykjakvik followed their team's first-ever World Cup match on large video screens set up in the heart of the capital. After the match, they celebrated their team's 1-1 draw with 2014 finalists Argentina as if it had been a victory. Superstar Lionel Messi and the rest of the Argentinian national team had their problems with Iceland in their opening match in Group D. The 2014 finalists could only manage a 1-1 draw, and Messi, the five-time world footballer of the year, often looked very ordinary indeed. In the 64th minute, he even failed to score from the penalty spot. Shortly before the match between Iran and Morocco kicked off, the Iranian government banned outdoor public gatherings to watch the game. In St. Petersburg, though, Iranian women, who would not be allowed into a stadium in their homeland, took the opportunity to make their view known. One of the lowest-profile opening games to grace any World Cup wasn't much of a contest. Russia were far too good for a poor Saudi Arabia side and ran out 5-0 winners. Denis Cheryshev (center) came off the bench to score the second and added another sensational strike in injury time. The opening fixture of this year's tournament between two of the world's biggest gas exporters, Saudi Arabia and Russia, was ironically dubbed "El Gasico" by some fans. Here, Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman Al Saud chats to FIFA President Gianni Infantino, while Russian President Vladimir Putin watches the action. Putin (second from left) also made an appearance before the opening with a plethora of footballing greats. Lothar Matthäus (far left), Pele and Maradona (center), Jay Jay Okocha (far right) and Kanu (back right) were also in attendance. More than 500 local dancers, gymnasts and performers joined pop star Robbie Williams and Russian soprano Aida Garifullina on stage at the tournament's opening ceremony. Shorter than most such events, the 15-minute-long display also featured speeches from Russian President Vladimir Putin and FIFA President Gianni Infantino.