An unprecedented dust storm on the surface of the planet Mars has enveloped NASA's oldest working rover Opportunity, the space agency said on Wednesday. The first indicators of the storm, which already covers one-quarter of Mars, were reported on May 30. It is expected to encircle the planet in another few days. Stuck in round-the-clock darkness, Opportunity entered an indefinite sleep mode, in an attempt to conserve battery power. The rover, which is powered by solar panels, usually performs this sleep-mode function only overnight. But the giant dust storm could leave the rover without a chance to power itself for a long time. NASA said it could be weeks or even months until the sky clears enough for sunlight to reach the Martian surface. Mars is a cold and barren planet, with a thin atmosphere and desert-like conditions, which make it prone to dust storms that can last for months. Read more: Our first InSight into the interior of Mars The Opportunity could survive Although NASA's Mars rovers were designed to last only 90 days, the Opportunity has been operating for 15 years. Flight controllers tried late Tuesday night to contact Opportunity, but the rover did not respond. NASA officials said Wednesday that they were still hopeful the rover could survive the storm. Experts at the space agency said that Opportunity was in excellent shape. Their primary concern was that the rover's optic lenses could gather a large amount of dust. Read more: Will we evolve to adapt to life in space? "By no means are we out of the woods here," said John Callas, the Opportunity project manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. "This storm is threatening, and we don't know how long it will last, and we don't know what the environment will be like once it clears." Another hazard for the rover could be temperature. Freezing temperatures are believed to be what damaged Opportunity's twin rover, the Spirit. A valuable asset for NASA The rover Opportunity has contributed to important scientific findings at NASA, which include evidence that Mars may have held conditions favorable for sustaining microbial life. More recently, the rover has been examining the possibility that geological feature of the red planet's Perseverance Valley was carved out by flowing water, wind erosion or both. In 2007, the Opportunity was caught in a massive dust storm that kept it silent for a few days. But the resilient rover jumped back into action after awakening from a deep self-protecting slumber. Curiosity is the largest and most modern of all Mars rovers. It landed on August 6, 2012 and has since traveled about 17 kilometers (10.5 miles). It is much more than just a rover. Its official name is "Mars Science Laboratory," and it really is a complete lab on wheels. For example, it contains special spectrometer, which can analyze chemical compounds from a distance with the help of a laser; a complete meteorological station that can measure temperature, atmospheric pressure, radiation, humidity and wind speed; and most importantly, a chemistry lab that can run detailed analyses of organic compounds and is always on the hunt for traces of alien life. Curiosity has shown that life would theoretically be possible on Mars. But it hasn't discovered any life, yet. The robot's arm is equipped with a full power drill. Here, it's taking a sample in "yellowknife bay" inside the Gale Crater. The Mars dust is processed by a large number of instruments. First, it's filtered and separated into different-sized particles. Then, those get sorted and sent off to different analytical laboratory machines. Curiosity's predecessors were much smaller. On July 4thm 1997 the small Mars rover Sojourner left its first tire tracks behind - in the dust of the Red Planet. It was the first time a mobile robot had been left to its own devices there, equipped with an x-ray spectrometer to conduct chemical analyses and with optical cameras. Three rover generations. (The tiny one up front is Sojourner.) At 10.6 kilograms (23 pounds), it's not much bigger than a toy car. Its top speed: one centimeter per second. Opportunity weighs 185 kilograms - roughly the equivalent of an electric wheelchair. Curiosity is as big as a small car, at 900 kilograms. The big ones travel up to four or five centimeters per second. Sojourner travelled about 100 meters during its lifetime and delivered data and pictures until September 27th, 1997. This is one of the last pictures of it, taken nine days before the radio connection broke down. Sojourner probably died because the battery did not survive the cold nights. Without the experience of Sojourner, newer rovers could have hardly been envisaged. In 2004, NASA landed two robots of the same model on Mars: Spirit and Opportunity. Spirit survived for six years, travelling a distance of 7.7 kilometers. The robot climbed mountains, took soil samples and withstood winter and sandstorms. Its sibling Opportunity proved more lucky and is still in service today. Opportunity passed the marathon distance of 42 kilometers back in 2015, and to this day, it has covered much more ground than Curiosity. It can take ground probes with its arm. It has three different spectrometers and even a 3D camera. It is currently operating in "Perseverance Valley," an appropriate workplace for the sturdy robot. This panorama was taken by Curiosity's mast camera. The most modern of the rovers will stay in service as long as possible - hopefully at least another five years and much longer. The Martian landscape looks familiar somehow, not unlike some deserts here on Earth. Should we give in to our wanderlust, then - or would it be better leave Mars to the robots? Author: Fabian Schmidt jcg/se (Reuters, dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.