It might be a century since the Great War that killed some 40 million people ended, but wars continue to rage across the world as US President Donald Trump threatens to rain "fire and fury" on his adversaries.  As an insight into how artists have responded to the ravages of a nightmare global conflict, "Aftermath: Art in the Wake of World War One," an exhibition opening June 5 at London's Tate Britain, comes at a particularly germane time.  Exploring the immediate impact of the "war to end all wars" on British, German and French art, "Aftermath" showcases over 150 works by artists including George Grosz, Hannah Höch, Pablo Picasso, Otto Dix, Christopher R.W. Nevinson and Käthe Kollwitz, among many others.  Read more: How artists captured the splendor and misery of the Weimar Republic  This tumultuous postwar period intersected with the emergence of radical new artist styles like Dada and Surrealism that informed responses to the nature of war, the culture of remembrance and postwar rebuilding. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yKXQ 'Torn, naked and scarred and riddled' Sometimes controversial paintings captured not the victorious march of great patriotic fighters, but the brutality of trench warfare and the loss of dignity for faceless soldiers caught up in senseless industrial slaughter. Some of the artists had served on the Western or Eastern Front, including English painter Paul Nash, whose watercolors expressed a "torn, naked and scarred and riddled" landscape. In the postwar years, Dada photomontage artists like Hannah Höch parodied the corrupt elites that now spoke of peace, while her colleagues like Grosz and Dix focused on the maimed and disabled veterans and the desperate prostitutes who followed in their wake, all forever marked by war. Höch's photomontage, Dada Rundschau, parodied the leaders who advocate both war and peace Other works tackle mourning and remembrance, with artists like Käthe Kollwitz, Andre Mare and William Orpen commissioned to produce sculptural and painted works to memorialize and commemorate the conflict. However, Orpen's To the Unknown British Soldier in France refused to glorify heads of state at Versailles and was rejected, with the artist instead committed to representing the "the ragged unemployed soldier and the dead." Click through the picture gallery above to see some of the key "Aftermath" works reflecting the horrors of World War I. Aftermath: Art in the Wake of World War One runs June 5 through September 23, 2018 at London's Tate Britain. The war was often fought primarily in places where there was still something to eat or pillage. Farmers were tortured to force them to reveal their hidden stockpiles of food. Swedish mercenaries terrorized the populace with the so-called "Swedish drink," a torture method in which a mixture of urine, excrement and dirty water was funneled into prisoners’ mouths. Gustav II Adolf of Sweden entered the war in 1630 to save German Protestantism and expand his influence in Europe. He prevented the victory of the Catholic camp led by the Holy Roman Emperor, and was an active commander who personally led his troops in battle. One of the biggest battles of the Thirty Years' War was fought on 16 November 1632 in Lützen, with huge losses but no discernable victor. The predominantly Swedish Protestant Army under King Gustav II Adolf — depicted praying here — fought against the Emperor’s troops led by Albrecht von Wallenstein. The Swedish king was killed in a cavalry charge, handing the Catholic forces a propaganda victory. There were also war profiteers: commanders who recruited soldiers, organized professional armies and perfected the business of slaughter. The most successful was General Albrecht von Wallenstein on the side of the Emperor. He introduced a levy system whereby farmers, merchants and citizens were forced to supply food, and even soldiers' pay. Wallenstein’s motto was "War will feed itself." Executions and tortures were a daily occurrence. The artist and contemporary witness Jacques Callot captured the horrors of the Thirty Years' War in his drawings. Callot depicted the population as both victims and perpetrators, with soldiers being lynched or ending up crippled beggars. His best-known work is the etching entitled "The Hanging" (1632/33). Hardly anyone still believed it was possible, but at last it was achieved. After five years of preparations and negotiations in the Protestant city of Osnabrück and the Catholic city of Münster, all parties to the war signed peace treaties in Münster. The Peace of Westphalia is still seen as an inspiration for resolving conflicts today. Author: Ralf Bosen