The voice of late British theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking will be beamed into space as his ashes are buried at London's Westminster Abbey during a memorial service on Friday. One of the world's best-known scientists, Hawking died on March 14 at the age of 76 after a lifetime spent probing the origins of the universe, the mysteries of black holes and the nature of time itself. Read more: How Stephen Hawking became a pop culture star As the ashes of the British theoretical physicist are interred, a recording of Hawking's voice accompanied by music written by Greek composer Vangelis will be sent towards the nearest black hole by the European Space Agency. He will be buried by the graves of fellow scientists Isaac Newton and Charles Darwin. "This is a beautiful and symbolic gesture that creates a link between our father's presence on this planet, his wish to go into space and his explorations of the universe in his mind," Hawking's daughter Lucy said. Read more: Beyond the myth: Bruce Allen on Stephen Hawking Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uSU5 'A message of peace and hope' "The broadcast will be beamed towards the nearest black hole, 1A 0620-00, which lives in a binary system with a fairly ordinary orange dwarf star," his daughter Lucy Hawking was quoted as saying by the BBC. "It is a message of peace and hope, about unity and the need for us to live together in harmony on this planet." Friday's service will be attended by Hawking's family, friends and colleagues and about 1,000 members of the public who were selected by a ballot. Read more: Will we evolve to adapt to life in space? Guests attending Hawking's service will be welcomed by volunteers from the London 2012 Paralympic Games opening ceremony, which Hawking starred in. British astronaut Tim Peake, astronomer royal Martin Rees, and actor Benedict Cumberbatch, who played Hawking in a television film and narrated his documentaries, will deliver addresses. Hawking's first wife, Jane, arrives at the funeral at St. Mary the Great church in Cambridge with her son Timothy. Hundreds, if not thousands, lined the streets of Cambridge to watch the funeral procession. Hawking is to be cremated and his ashes will be interred at Westminster Abbey among other giants of the scientific community, including Isaac Newton and Charles Darwin. Hawking's coffin, topped with lilies and white rose, is carried into St. Mary the Great church in Cambridge. It was a private funeral with 500 invited guests. British actor Eddie Redmayne arrives at Hawking's funeral. Redmayne portrayed Hawking in the 2014 film "The Theory of Everything." In a scene from "The Theory of Everything," Redmayne portrays a college-aged Hawking. Redmayne was nominated for an Academy Award for best actor for his portrayal. Hawking wasn't overly active in politics, but in 2017 he spoke out against government plans to allow private companies to play a bigger role in British health care. Hawking was also a pop culture icon, appearing in several TV series playing himself, including "Star Trek: The Next Generation" and American cartoon sitcom "The Simpsons." Author: Bruce Konviser law/rs (AFP, Reuters)