An explosion disrupted a huge rally for Ethiopia's reformist Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Saturday, injuring more than 100 people, police said. Abiy had just finished addressing tens of thousands of supporters at Meskel Square, in the capital, Addis Ababa when a grenade detonated, one rally organizer said. The noise and explosion forced droves of supporters towards the stage, and the prime minister was hurriedly taken away. Initially, there was confusion over whether anyone had died at the scene. Abiy said on TV shortly after this blast that there had been several fatalities. But later his chief of staff said on Twitter that there were no fatalities, giving a figure of 83 wounded people — six in a critical condition. The state-affiliated Fana Broadcasting Corporation reported that more than 100 people had been injured, 15 of them "severely." Abiy, who took office in April, described the incident as "an unsuccessful attempt by forces who do not want to see Ethiopia united." He said it was as "well-orchestrated attack," but one that failed. Read more: Egypt and Ethiopia fend off water wars over Nile mega-dam 'Grenade thrown at stage' Rally organizer Seyoum Teshome described how someone tried to hurl the grenade at the stage, but was held back by the crowd. He said three suspects, two men and a woman, were immediately arrested. A witness, who stood close to the scene of the blast, told The Associated Press that the grenade thrower was wearing a police uniform. Tens of thousands of Ethiopians, heartened by a recent wave of reforms, turned out to see Abiy on Saturday Another eyewitness described "unbelievable scenes" at Zeweditu Hospital in Addis Ababa, where the wounded were taken. "Ambulances carried the injured to the hospital most of them bleeding profusely ... the compound is almost full of people, and the injured are lying on the ground to be treated," he told DW on condition of anonymity. Injured sent for specialist treatment "I spoke to doctors and they have confirmed to me that there are no fatalities until now, but some of the injured are in critical condition and they have been sent to better equipped hospitals." "Everyone is shocked and furious about what happened and many questions remain as to why someone would carry out an attack on the new prime minister," the eyewitness added. Abiy has announced several radical policy shifts since taking office that will reshape the country's relations with neighbors, including plans to fully implement a 18-year-old peace deal with Eritrea to end a two-year war, that turned into a stalemate resulting in huge military buildup by both countries. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2z0N2 He also announced the release of tens of thousands of prisoners, and set in motion the opening of state-owned companies to private investment. Eritrea's ambassador to Japan later wrote on Twitter: "#Eritrea strongly condemns the attempt to incite violence, in today’s AA demonstration for peace, 1st of its kind in history of #Ethiopia." The 41-year-old ex-army officer succeeded Hailemariam Desalegn, who resigned in February amid a wave of anti-government protests led by the country's two largest ethnicities, that started in late 2015 and left hundreds of people dead. An exhibition that opened at London's famous Victoria and Albert museum of ancient treasures looted from Ethiopia has revived debate about where such artifacts should reside. The exhibiton comprises 20 royal and religious artifacts plundered during the Battle of Maqdala in 1868, when a British force laid siege to the mountain fortress of Ethiopian Emperor Tewodros. After its victory, the British force was at liberty to take what it wanted, which even caused controversy and shame at the time in England. "We want to better reflect on the history of these artifacts in our collection–tracing their origins and then confronting the difficult and complex issues which arise," says Tristram Hunt, the Victoria and Albert museum’s director. The complex issue of repatriating looted objects has rumbled on for years in Europe and the US without much resolution. However, most recently there appears increasing openness to engage with the issue, both on the part of major Western museums and governments. French President Emmanuel Macron said in November that the restoration of African artifacts was a "top priority" for his country. The scale of the treasures stolen by the British army remains a mystery. "It is not widely known what happened," historian Richard Pankhurst said before his death in 2017. "The soldiers were able to pick the best of the best that Ethiopia had to offer. Most Ethiopians have never seen manuscripts of that quality." The argument for returning such artifacts appears strong, but museums take their guardianship very seriously. "We have the responsibility, as a public institution and national library, to research, make accessible and preserve the collections under our custodianship for people and researchers from all over the world," says Luisa Mengoni who works at the British Library. This Maqdala necklace was recently returned to Ethiopia. "It’s true that the level of care and quality in Britain is much better than ours, but if you come to the Institute of Ethiopian Studies in Addis Ababa, you can see how well they [Maqdalas] are kept and made available to the public," says Andreas Eshete, co-founder of the Association for the Return of the Ethiopian Maqdala Treasures. Those arguing for the manuscripts' return say the library won’t lose out as it can retain high-quality digital copies. "We can use digital to increase access for people across the world to the intellectual heritage we safeguard," Mengoni says. The library plans to digitize some 250 manuscripts from the Ethiopian collection. 25 manuscripts are already available online. "The artwork suffers when it is digitalized, plus many of the manuscripts have detailed comments in the margins — there are many reasons scholars need to attend to the originals here in Ethiopia, and which are not met by digital copies," Andreas says. New legislation would have to be passed by the British Parliament for the manuscripts to be returned to Ethiopia. Other options that find a middle ground in the debate are beginning to be discussed. Tristram Hunt says he is "open to the idea" of a long-term loan of the museum’s Maqdala objects to Ethiopia, a move that "would be a step in the right direction," says Alula Pankhurst, son of Richard Pankhurst. Author: James Jeffrey Author: James Jeffrey mm/rc (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)