"Hartpuckern" ― "Herzklopfen" in German and "heart palpitation" in English ― is the Low Saxon language's word of the year. Marco Zabel, the director of the Fritz-Reuter Literature Museum in the northeastern German state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, announced the decision on Sunday, according to local media. Read more: Northern German states pledge to protect vulnerable Low Saxon language Zabel said representatives from the museum and the state's cultural association selected the word from more than 98 entries. An independent jury of language critics chose 'alternative facts' ("alternative Fakten") as its 2017 "Unwort des Jahres" (literally, "non-word of the year"). The jury argued that the term is a misleading expression for the attempt to make using false claims publically acceptable. The term was first used by a Trump White House advisor to defend a lie relating to the size of the inauguration crowd. The jury chose "Volksverräter," or a traitor to the nation, for its 2016 "non-word." The linguists criticized the expression as it hinders a democracy's essential debates. The word's original roots date to the early 19th century; it was widely used during the Nazi era. Recently, far-right individuals have used the term. The jury's selection for 2012 was the term "Opfer-Abo," literally "victim subscription." The term, which refers to the idea of women using sexual assault accusations to get ahead of men, was used by Swiss TV celebrity Jörg Kachelmann after he had been accused and acquitted of rape. The jury called the phrase unacceptable for blanketing women as liars and minimizing the dignity of assault victims. Just months after police discovered the individuals behind a wave of murders of Greek and Turkish nationals, the jury selected "Döner-Morde," or Döner murders, as its "non-word" for 2011. Some of the victims had either owned or had been killed in a Döner-Kebab food joint. The linguists criticized the term for its racist reduction of ethnicity and for its trivialization of the murders. Amid the 2007-2008 financial crisis, "notleidende Banken," or "distressed banks," became the "non-word" of the year. According to the jury, the term turns the relationship between the crisis' causes and its consequences on its head. Although high-risk, unregulated banking practices had caused a global economic meltdown and tax payer bailouts, the term styled the banks as victims — not the cause. While the word "Überfremdung," or "foreign infiltration," saw a renewed spurt of usage in past years with respect to migration, the jury named it "non-word" back in 1993. The term previously had been used during the Nazi era, among other times. It refers to a foreign element that poses an existential threat to a nation or culture. The jury criticized the word as a fake argument against migration. Author: Cristina Burack Winners in previous years include "Dwarsdriewer" ("obstructionist"), "Ackerschnacker" ("mobile phone"), "Lämmerhüppen" ("disco") and "kommodig" ("comfortable"). The 2018 award for the best new word in the regional language was "Ankiekbook" ("Facebook"), while the award for the best idiom went to "Stoh fast, kiek weit und röög di!" ("stand tall, look to the distance and do something!"). Read more: How a dictionary aims to expand standardized variants of German Low Saxon, also known as Low German, is spoken by some 4.8 million people, according to UNESCO's latest estimate, with around 3 million located in the western and northern states of Germany and the rest in the Netherlands and far southern Denmark. The German author and poet Fritz Reuter wrote many of his works in the language during the nineteenth century. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.