Iran's nuclear chief inaugurated a new facility to produce advanced centrifuges on Wednesday, as European powers struggle to save an international deal that has constrained Iran's nuclear enrichment program. "We hope the facility to be completed in a month," Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organization, said on state television, adding that work on the facility had begun before 2015. The decision to start up the facility, which is located in Natanz plant in central Iran, did not violate the 2015 nuclear deal — the agreement signed by Iran and six world powers that placed severe constraints on the country's enrichment program in exchange for the suspension of international sanctions. Iran told the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on Tuesday that it would increase its nuclear enrichment capacity within the limits set out in the deal. Read more: Khamenei's empty threats over the Iran nuclear deal Iranian signal But it was Iran's latest signal that it would not bow to the United States, which has called for stronger constraints on the country's nuclear program since it withdrew from the deal in May. The move also increased pressure on the deal's three European signatories — the United Kingdom, France, Germany — who have been fighting to keep the deal alive in the wake of the US withdrawal. That task has proved increasingly difficult as European firms pull out of Iran amid concerns they could be targeted by US sanctions. Meanwhile, Iran's ambassador to the IAEA, Reza Najafi, has warned the country could restart unrestricted enrichment if European countries fail to keep the deal intact. Read more: French carmaker PSA to stop Iran operations 'It is always dangerous to flirt with red lines' "If in an unfortunate situation the [nuclear deal] fails, then Iran can restart its activities without any limits," Najafi said. "What I can say is right now, the negotiations at the expert level are continuing and we hope that it could reach some conclusion," he added. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian shot back against Iran's threat to enrich beyond the limits of the deal, saying, "it is always dangerous to flirt with the red lines." Najafi also said Iran would not heed IAEA calls to more closely cooperate with nuclear inspectors. "But I should emphasize that it does not mean that right now Iran will restart any activities contrary to the [deal]," Najafi added. "These are only preparatory works." President Donald Trump announced on May 8 that he was pulling the United States out of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, arguing that the international accord was not in America's "national interest." The decision threw a cloud of uncertainty over the future of the nuclear accord and raised tensions with US allies in Europe. Britain, France and Germany lobbied the Trump administration and Congress to remain in the nuclear accord, arguing that the deal was working and a US violation without a follow up plan would be destabilizing. In European capitals, the Trump administration's withdrawal was viewed as a slap in the face of allies. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), better known as the Iran nuclear deal, was signed in 2015 by United States, China, Russia, France, Germany and Britain (P5+1) and Iran following years of negotiations. Under the international agreement, Iran agreed to dismantle its nuclear program and be subject to monitoring in exchange for the lifting on international nuclear related sanctions. The JCPOA includes a robust monitoring, verification and inspection regime carried out by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The UN watch dog has verified Iran's compliance with the deal in 12 quarterly reports. The JCPOA allows Iran to pursue a peaceful nuclear program for commercial, medical and industrial purposes in line with international non-proliferation standards. The Iran nuclear deal was President Barack Obama's signature foreign policy achievement. Seeking to undo nearly every Obama administration legacy, Trump came into office calling it the "worst deal ever." The Trump administration argues the nuclear deal doesn't address other unrelated issues such as Iran's ballistic missiles, regional influence, support for "terrorist" groups and human rights. The nuclear deal and lifting of punishing nuclear related international sanctions created optimism in Iran after years of economic isolation. However, even before Trump pulled the US out of the deal, Tehran blamed the US for holding back international investment and not fulfilling its end of the bargain due to the uncertainty created by Trump's threats. After eight years with Barack Obama, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu found the US president he wanted in Donald Trump. The Israeli leader repeatedly slammed the deal despite his own military and intelligence chiefs' assessment the that JCPOA, while not perfect, was working and should be maintained. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are the other main opponents of the nuclear deal. The EU-3 (Britain, France, Germany) are scrambling to ensure that Iran receives the economic benefits it was promised in order to avoid Tehran pulling out of the deal. As EU businesses face retaliation from the US for doing business with Iran, many are opting to avoid Iran. This would likely be a present to Chinese and Russian businesses. amp/bw (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.