Refresh page for live updates 45' GOAL! England 5-0 Panama — Kane rifles the ball into the same corner and England have scored more than four goals in a game for the first time at a World Cup. 44' PENALTY TO ENGLAND! Stones is wrestled to the ground and Kne will have a chance to make it five. 40' GOAL! England 4-0 Panama — Stones scores again and England have four! A brilliantly worked set piece. Trippier played it short to Henderson, who clipped it first time beyind the far post. Kane headed it back across the face of goal to Sterling, whose header was superbly saved by Penedo. It rebounded to Stones, who headed into the roof of the net. 36' GOAL! England 3-0 Panama — Lingard makes it three with an absolute peach of a goal. Cutting on to his right foot, he bends a delicious shot inside the top corner and that puts clear daylight between England and the Panamanians. 31' England still quite sloppy at the back and without playing well are cruising in this game. 29' Panama just not defending deep enough against an England side who are capable of tearing them apart. 25' England haven't been as impressive in the first 25 minutes here as they were against Tunisia, but crucially are taking their chances. Along way back for Panama already. 22' GOAL! England 2-0 Panama — Kane arrows his penalty into the top corner to emphatically double England's lead. 20' PENALTY TO ENGLAND! Lingard goes down in the box under pressure from Escobar. A soft one, but Kane will have the chance to make it 2-0 to England... 18' Panama aren't afraid of attacking England here — plenty of reasons for them to be optimistic despite being behind. 15' Panama chance! Barcenas looking lively again as he bends a superb shot centimeters wide of the post. So close to a spectacular equalizer. 13' Kane is almost played in by Henderson, but the through ball just had too much on it. 10' Barcenas has been Panama's most dangerous player in the opening stages. He races into space down the right and Maguire is forced to slide the ball away. 8' GOAL! England 1-0 Panama — England corner swung in from the right by Trippier and finds Stones unmarked, and he buries his header. The Three Lions lead. 5' Chance for Panama! Stones passes the ball straight to the Baracenas, who works it to Godoy, but his shot is anxiously sliced high and wide. Wake-up call for England. 4' First effort on goal is from Panama's Edgar Barcenas, whose volley is too high. 2' Lingard has taken a clattering from Gabriel Gomez and is down receiving treatment. 1' KICK OFF! We're underway in Nizhny Novgorod. 13:55 CEST The players are out, the anthems have been sung, and we're just about ready to go... 13:50 CEST Here's how the teams line up... 13:45 CEST Day 11 of the World Cup is here and we start with live coverage of England vs. Panama.