A UN report published on Wednesday showed that malnourishment remained widespread in North Korea despite a "slight" improvement across the country. Around one in five children in North Korea is smaller than the average for his or her age, the report said. The UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) noted that stunting is "an indication of chronic or recurrent malnutrition." Food insecurity The rate of stunted children has decreased over the past decade, dropping from 32.4 percent in 2009 to 19 percent in 2017. Despite the improvement, "only one in three children age six to 23 months receive the minimum acceptable diet," UNICEF Asia and Pacific director Karin Hulshof told reporters in Geneva. A UN-led report published last year found widespread food insecurity in North Korea, with roughly 41 percent of the population undernourished. Read more: North Korea drought threatens famine and instability 'New seriousness' Hulshof noted that the government survey of 8,500 households marked improved cooperation between Pyongyang and the UN, noting that the information was more reliable than in the last survey in 2009. Read more: Climate change strips nutrients from food crops "This new seriousness and improved openness about data is in UNICEF's view a real step forward," said Hulshof. "I would just like to remind everyone that these data were collected in 2017, so that is sometime before the latest summits." Diplomatic blitz Earlier this month, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met with US President Donald Trump, culminating in what observers believe is a historic shift on the Korean Peninsula. Part of North Korea's latest diplomatic blitz included a high-level summit, with Kim walking across the heavily-militarized border to meet with South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Read more: Did Trump justify North Korea human rights abuse? But some observers have been cautious to laud North Korea's shift, saying Pyongyang's aims may not be fully understood yet. The country has suffered from paralyzing international sanctions linked to its nuclear and ballistic missiles programs. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump shake hands as they meet for the first time. Unlike in past meetings with some world leaders, Trump did not try to pull Kim's hand towards him or hold on to the North Korean leader's hand too long. Trump and Kim appeared at ease with one another during the summit. Just a few months prior, Trump and Kim engaged in a war of words, trading insults like "little rocket man" and "mentally deranged." Following their meeting, Trump said he formed a "special bond" with Kim and that he'd like to invite him to the White House. Kim lays a hand on Trump's back as they leave after signing a joint statement pledging peace negotiations and denuclearization. Some critics worried that the US agreed to give up too many things in negotiations with Kim. At a press conference, Trump said he wanted to stop US military exercises with South Korea and eventually withdraw US troops — something Pyongyang has been demanding for years. Trump displays the joint agreement he signed with Kim. In the four-point document, Kim agreed to the "complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." In exchange, Trump agreed to provide "security guarantees" to Pyongyang. The two leaders also agreed to build a "robust peace regime" and to return the remains of prisoners of the 1950-1953 Korean War. South Koreans watch the summit on a screen located at a train station in Seoul. Ahead of the event, critics expressed concern that the meeting between the two leaders would be purely symbolic and not bring concrete progress to easing tensions. Indeed, the agreement did not specify what exact measures would be taken. A bartender in Singapore crafted a special drink for the summit, dubbed "The Bromance." The meeting was held on Singapore's Sentosa island, a resort area with luxury hotels and a theme park. The island's security was massively increased ahead of the summit, while local businesses marked the occasion with special Trump-Kim branded water and drinks. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with dpa, AFP) ls/ (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.