Deutsche Welle: Is America reflected in Robert Schumann's biography? Markus Schuck: Not directly. The choice of theme has more to do with the Leonard Bernstein centennial; he was born on August 25, 1918. I've long dreamed of exploring the life of that great American conductor and the works he created. Particularly now that America is going through difficult times politically. But we have much to thank the country for, including cultural developments and wonderful musicians who have shown that music can bring people together and foster peace. There is actually an American connection in Schumann's biography though. At one point he contemplated going there with his wife Clara. Whether it was a vague longing for the land of unlimited opportunity, whether Germany had grown too small and provincial for him, or whether he thought there would be a financial reward with this wife playing concerts — the wish to tour the country was strong, but unfulfilled. Read more: How Robert Schumann's final city is keeping his memory alive Before a tour in 1968, "Lennie" is greeted at the Cologne-Bonn airport by Germany's Wine Queen Regarding Bernstein and Schumann: the composer's Second Symphony was a central work in the conductor's life. He performed it at his German debut, and it turned up again and again in his concerts. He had an intensely personal relation to Schumann. For my part, I was always impressed by the ease with which Bernstein could explain music. Where does the theme of "America" turn up on the festival program? At the opening, music from Bernstein's musical West Side Story is performed in an adaptation for two pianos — and later on, we'll hear it as an orchestral suite. Melodies from George Gershwin's opera Porgy and Bess are performed once in a version for two pianos and once by violin and piano. American composer Samuel Barber's composition "Summer Music" is on the playbill; we have a tribute to Frank Sinatra, and the final concert includes songs by Bernstein and composers from Latin America. Festival-goers can also view a documentary film by Axel Fuhrmann on the creation of Bernstein's West Side Story. Also shown is the film On the Waterfront with music by Bernstein, the cult film Koyaanisqatsi with music by Philip Glass and the American dance documentary First Position. The  Schumannfest also includes a song competition for young people called "Show What You Can Do." What did Robert Schumann have to do with promoting young musical talent? A full house of children at the Schumanns He wrote pieces for children and youngsters, including songs and the Album for the Youth, which includes the text "Musikalische Haus- und Lebensregeln" (Musical Rules for the Home and for Life). It documents the value of early music education and activity, explaining that it's a matter of starting at the youngest age possible and training the voice and the ear. After all, Schumann was the father of eight children, so education was a central priority to him. We think a singing competition is the ideal vehicle to transport that idea to modern times. But we don't set the standard as high as other German competitions such as "Jugend Musiziert" (Youth Makes Music). Anyone who wants to can take part and sing two songs of his or her choice. Do they have to sing art music, or is it stylistically also open to the kind of music performed in television casting shows that are entered by up to 30,000 young people, each with dreams of becoming a star? To get in the mood for the song competition, kids get a dollop of ice cream in front of the Schumann House We've also thought about where art begins. Basically, with the world's simplest instrument, one's own voice. It is immediately touching and reaches others too. I think you can call that serious art. We want to promote that and also prove that there are unsuspected talents out there. It's a matter of having kids discover their own voices, but it's not about the commercialization of voices and singing you see in televised casting shows. Many music festivals in Germany are borne on three financial pillars, each roughly equal: one-third proceeds from ticket sales, one-third corporate sponsoring and one-third public funding. Does that apply to the Schumannfest in Bonn too? We've made some progress from the status of a no-budget festival. The city of Bonn makes the very modest contribution of 35,000 euros ($40,900). Much of the work is done by volunteers. Were we to express that in monetary terms, you'd see a sizable personnel budget. Sooner or later we'll need a remunerated staff. Read more: Why composer Robert Schumann was a misunderstood genius Inexhaustible Schumann advocate: Markus Schuck What chance do you see of that happening? After 20 years, we're now seeing Bonn being called not only the Beethoven City, but also the Schumann and the Macke City [editor's note: the expressionist painter August Macke (1887-1914) lived part of his life in Bonn]. Of course Beethoven will be writ large in 2020, 250 years after his birth. We hope that Schumann won't be completely drowned out in the Beethoven mania. We do have a Schumann anniversary year coming up too however: 2019 marks the bicentennial of the birth of Clara Schumann. Maybe you can never get too much Beethoven, but that needn't happen to the exclusion of everything else … We shall resist! The city has recognized that a plurality of issues strengthens its cultural identity. Many an American tourist has stumbled across the graves of the Schumanns in Bonn and remarked, "Why didn't anyone tell us about this?" Getting Schumann, who died in Bonn, onto the city's agenda has been a been a laborious task. Despite the opulent gravesite, many still don't know that the Schumanns' final resting place is in Bonn's old cemetery Markus Schuck is speaker for political education at the Catholic Social Education Association in Bonn. Together with Andreas Etienne, director of Bonn's Springmaus Theater, he founded the Endenich Autumn festival in 1998, later renamed the Schumannfest Bonn. Although coordinated on a volunteer basis by Schuck and his co-workers, it has developed into a festival known far beyond Bonn and the greater region. It combines music, theater, film, dance and lectures and showcases excellent, mostly younger artists. This year's Schumannfest takes place from June 3-16 in Bonn. Robert Schumann was born in the small Saxon city of Zwickau on June 8, 1810. His father August Schumann was a book merchant, publisher, author and translator who introduced the English authors Lord Byron and Sir Walter Scott to German readers. August was an adherent of the "Sturm und Drang" (Storm and Stress) movement upholding the ideals of genius, innocence and the sanctity of love and nature. The young Robert Schumann was of a cheerful disposition. His mother, Johanna Christiane, called him her "bright spot." Hearing a recital by the pianist Ignaz Moscheles at age nine, he demanded a piano - and was soon improvising on it as though possessed. He was equally talented in poetry and music. At age 15, he suffered his first serious bout of depression. After studying law for two years in Leipzig and Heidelberg and traveling to Italy, the 20-year-old Robert decided to dedicate himself to music and moved into the household of the notoriously strict piano instructor Friedrich Wieck in Leipzig. To strengthen individual fingers, he devised a contraption that would hold other fingers up in the air. As a result, his hand was paralyzed. That was the end of the dream of becoming a piano virtuoso. A bout of depression resulted in his first suicide attempt in the autumn of 1833. Robert Schumann could only come to terms with his diverse interests and mood swings through creative work - by writing music. Even early works such as the "Abegg-Variationen" and "Papillons" showed a mastery of technique. Also under Friedrich Wieck's tutelage was his daughter Clara; the gifted girl played concerts as a child. The love between Robert and Clara was first openly expressed in 1835 when she was 16 years old. Her father sought to prevent any contact between the two with every means at his disposal. They secretly got engaged in 1837 - but weren't able to marry until 1840 after a court decision. The convivial young Schumann spent time with like-minded artists in "Kaffeebaum," a coffeehouse in Leipzig. Calling themselves "Davidsbündler," they railed against petty bourgeois artistic tastes and mediocrity. In 1834 Schumann founded the "Neue Zeitschrift für Musik" (New Music Journal) and wrote for the periodical for 10 years. His critiques had a major impact on the music world. Schumann wrote mostly piano music at first. Then, after his marriage in 1840, he penned more than 130 Lieder in that year alone. Music in nearly every genre followed in the years to come: an opera, four symphonies, choral and chamber music. Clara wrote music as well, but was not permitted to enter the public eye as a composer. Robert even wanted her to discontinue her concert appearances at first. The Schumanns had eight children - and for financial reasons, Clara soon found herself back on tour. Periods of high productivity during Schumann's time in Leipzig and Dresden alternated with phases of depression. Today his illness would likely be diagnosed as a bipolar disorder. An earlier syphilis infection may have contributed to his symptoms. In 1850, the Schumann family moved to Dusseldorf, and Robert was warmly greeted as the city's new music director. Buoyed by the upbeat mood of his new surroundings, he composed his Third Symphony, the "Rhenish." Soon, however, he was at loggerheads with the municipal chorus and orchestra. He seemed unsuited for the organizational aspects of the job. In 1853, Johannes Brahms visited the Schumanns in Dusseldorf - and Schumann promptly wrote an essay proclaiming the young man as the greatest composer in the years to come. Bolstered by optimism, Schumann had a brief surge of creativity, but professional conflicts erupted that same year - after which he withdrew from his conducting responsibilities and stopped composing. In a downward spiral, sounds raging through his head robbed him of his sleep. On February 27, 1854 he leapt into the Rhine but was rescued and sent home. On March 4, at his own request, he was admitted to the Institution for the Treatment and Care of the Emotionally Ill and Insane in Endenich near Bonn - and died there two and a half years later on July 29, 1856. Surviving her husband by 40 years, Clara Schumann remained a star of the music world. Johannes Brahms was more than a close friend to her, though their love most likely remained platonic. Clara Schumann and Johannes Brahms destroyed late works by Robert Schumann, considering them to have been impaired by his illness. Musicologists have only recently come to see Schumann's work in a new light. Clara and Robert Schumann lie interred at the Alter Friedhof (Old Cemetery) in Bonn. Funds for the ornate gravesite were raised at a major Schumann festival in 1873. The memorial was designed by sculptor Adolf von Donndorf and unveiled in 1880 at a festive ceremony with Clara and her children in attendance. Today it's a destination for those who love the music of Robert Schumann. Author: Rick Fulker 