In the lead-up to the World Cup, animal welfare activists are drawing attention to the increasing calls for tenders on the websites of Russian authorities. With these state contracts it is not about "capturing, sterilizing and housing" neglected animals. They are to be "captured, transported away and disposed of." The 2018 World Cup will take place across eleven Russian cities, but only Moscow, St. Petersburg and Nizhny Novgorod have shelters for abandoned animals. One is currently being built in Kaliningrad. Yelena Ivanova-Verchovskaya is deputy director of a group based in the Moscow Public Chamber, which monitors the regulation of the number of stray dogs in the Russian capital. In an interview with DW, she said that the authorities had promised to build temporary homes at the World Cup venues. "Two to three months ago it was said that the dogs were to be captured, sterilized, housed and released after the World Cup. But the problem that has existed for decades cannot be solved in such a short time. Of course, we will not be able to save all of them," the animal rights activist fears. Read more: How clean is Russian football? The main stadium, which is home to the Russian national team, has a capacity of 81,000. It will be the venue for both the opening match and the World Cup final, as well as one of the semifinals. The stadium, which has been renovated for the World Cup, has previously hosted a Champions League final and the Summer Olympic Games. The Yekateringburg Arena, which was built in 1953 has been refurbished for the 2018 World Cup. The stadium, with a capacity of 35,000, is the home of FC Ural of the Russian first division. Yekaterinburg is the furthest east of the host cities. The new home of Zenit St. Petersburg holds 68,000 spectators. It is the venue for one of the semifinals and the third-place match. It will also host a game in the last 16 as well as group stage matches, including one of Russia's clashes. Saint Petersburg Stadium was also a venue for the 2017 Confederations Cup. This 44,000 capacity stadium was built for the World Cup on an island south of Samara where no settlements or infrastructure previously existed. This is where hosts Russia will play their final group-stage match. A last-16 match and a quarterfinal will also be played in the stadium, which is to become the home of Krylya Sovetov, currently in the Russian second division, after the tournament. This venue was built on the site of the old Central Stadium in Volgograd near the Volga river. It can hold over 45,000 spectators and will only be used for the group stage. After the World Cup, it will become the home of Rotor Volgograd, a club currently playing in Russia's second division. Volgograd used to be known as Stalingrad. German architect Tim Hupe designed this brand new bowl stadium for the World Cup. The stadium has a capacity of 44,000 and will only host matches in the group stage. After the tournament, the upper seating will be dismantled and the stadium will be handed over to third-tier Russian side Mordovia Saransk. Rostov Arena, with a capacity of 45,000 is one of the new stadiums built specifically for the World Cup. The stadium will host four group-stage games and one match in the last 16. It will become the new home of FC Rostov after next summer's tournament. This 45,000 capacity stadium was built specifically for the World Cup. It will host four group-stage games as well as a round-of-16 match and a quarterfinal. After the tournament, it is expected to become the home ground of Olimpiyets Nizhny Novgorod of the Russian second division, although in March 2017, then-regional governor Valery Shantsev said it would also be used for other sporting events. This is the only World Cup venue in an exclave of Russia — Kaliningrad is a territory between Poland and Lithuania. The 35,000-capacity stadium was built specifically for the World Cup and will be downsized after the tournament. It is only a venue for the group stage and will become the new home of Baltika Kaliningrad, a club in Russia's second division. Though it was used for the Confederations Cup, the Spartak Stadium, with a capacity of 45,000, will only be used for four group-stage games and one first knockout-stage game. The arena was re-opened in 2014 and is the home of Spartak Moscow, Russia's most successful football club. A venue for the Confederations Cup, Kazan Arena will be used for a last 16 game, a quarterfinal and four group stage games. The capacity of the stadium is 41,585. Vladimir Putin laid the cornerstone for the stadium before it opened in 2013. It is the home ground of Rubin Kazan. This 41,220-capacity stadium was constructed for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games. A large section of the roof has been removed to accommodate football. A last 16 match and a quarterfinal will be played here as well as four group games. Author: Davis VanOpdorp Conditions in animal shelters deteriorating In 2008, a program in the Russian capital to capture, sterilize, vaccinate and release stray dogs was discontinued. Since then, the animals are captured and placed in a total of 13 municipal shelters. Once a year the authorities announce the number of dogs that have been captured. "The amount of money you get depends on how many dogs you catch. The animals are registered in the shelters, but the number of places is limited. All shelters are overcrowded," complains Ivanova-Verkhovskaya. She says that nobody checks the occupancy rate of the shelters and has called for the establishment of an appropriate control body. Read more: Humankind must learn 'to respect wild animals again' This year 900 million rubles (€12.3 million) have been allocated to catching and housing dogs, last year it was 670 million roubles. Despite the increase in funding, conditions in the shelters are deteriorating from year to year because they are overcrowded. Moscow’s shelters are not even connected to the water supply, with two exceptions. "The water that the dogs are given has to be brought in. Often there is none at all. The cages are made of old wooden constructions and must be repaired constantly. There is only money for minor repairs, but that is not enough," says Ivanova-Verkhovskaya. Fictitious diagnoses and euthanasia Animal rights activists caution that the program to capture and subsequently release the dogs may be stopped in other Russian cities. It was already banned in Rostov-on-Don in 2016 and the Supreme Court argued that the release of dogs violates the right to a safe environment. Commenting on the consequences, Ivanova Verkhovskaya said: "Although it is permitted to capture and house the animals, there is no room for them, but they cannot be released either. So, the animals are killed under various pretexts." In order not to violate the law, dogs are diagnosed with rabies or heightened aggression. Read more: How the World Cup will impact the Russian economy In addition to the calls for tender, cities also conclude direct contracts with companies to catch a certain number of dogs. However, only very few of these animals are put into shelters, for example, around 40 out of 4000, while the remaining animals are usually diagnosed with diseases, which no one verifies. The animals are then killed. "There was a shocking case near Moscow, where dogs were burned alive to save money on putting them to sleep," animal protection activist, Viktoria Pavlenko, told DW. She says that unscrupulous companies often win the tenders. "Mostly the dogs die while being caught or they are put to sleep in the transporter," criticises Pavlenko. ‘Killing stray animals is a highly corrupt business’ To prevent this from continuing, animal rights activists want a uniform law on the responsible treatment of animals: Stray dogs should be allowed to be captured and then released. A corresponding bill was adopted at first reading. However, the second and third readings have been repeatedly postponed. "This benefits companies involved in capturing the animals, but also local officials. Killing stray animals is a highly corrupt business, very expensive and ineffective," says Ivanova-Verkhovskaya. Pharmaceutical companies that sell means to put dogs to sleep also benefit. Last autumn, animal rights activists went on an open-ended hunger strike near the Russian parliament. They were demanding the final adoption of the law on the responsible treatment of animals. Other activists held individual vigils in Moscow. In other Russian regions, there were local campaigns and flash mobs. But Russian authorities have not responded. As statistics go, Azmoun is as good as one could hope for in Asian football. The 23-year-old forward has 22 goals in 30 appearances for Iran. He has not scored as often at Russian side Rubin Kazan, but he will be a focal point in Iran's attack. Brazil may have found their next great football star. Jesus, 21, scored 17 goals and recorded 5 assists for Mancester City this past season, and will in all likelihood be leading the line for Tite's Brazil side this summer. Uruguay has produced multiple star attackers and defenders in recent years, but Betancur, 21, could be one of their few in midfield. He made 27 appearances for Juventus this past season, including five in the Champions League. Lo Celso, 22, is the new kid on the block in an Argentina midfield that includes veterans Lucas Biglia and Ever Banega. But the young midfielder is poised to make an impact after scoring six goals and recording seven assists in 48 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain this past season. He is just 21 years old and 1.69 meters tall (5 foot 7), but Zivkovic has the pace and skill to be an impact player for Serbia. The Benfica forward scored three times and recorded seven assists in 30 appearances this past season. Hwang, 22, was one of the reasons Austrian side Red Bull Salzburg made the semifinals of the Europa League. Now he is hoping to make a similar impact with South Korea, who are hoping to return to the knockout stages of the World Cup after missing out in 2014. Golovin (left) is the hometown hero Russian football fans should get behind at the World Cup. A native of the Kemerovo region, the 21-year-old is already a regular in CSKA Moscow's team, and Russian coach Stanislav Cherchesov will need him to play a key role this summer. At Euro 2016 in France, Rashford was just a teenager along for the ride. Now he is an integral young piece of Gareth Southgate's England squad. He seems on the verge of a breakout after two full seasons under his belt, and it could come in Russia. Lozano, 22, tore it up in the Dutch first division last season, scoring 17 goals and recording 11 assists for PSV Eindhoven. He now has to translate that production to the Mexican national team, who face a tough group against Germany, Sweden and South Korea. Mbappe, 19, is a superstar in the making. He scored 21 goals and recorded 16 assists for Paris Saint-Germain last season, helping his side win a French treble. He now has the opportunity to be an impact player at his first World Cup as France chase their first World Cup since 1998. Asensio, 22, is one of the few Spanish youngsters who has become a regular at Real Madrid. After leading Spain to the U21 European Championship final last year, he will likely play a big role for Julen Lopetegui's team. He's clinical, he's fast and he's unlike many German forwards who put on the national team shirt. Werner, 22, took a minor step back this season after his breakout in 2016-17, but he will likely be the forward Joachim Löw counts on in Russia. Author: Davis VanOpdorp