The US introduced a 25 percent tariff on steel and a 10 percent tariff on aluminum from the EU, Canada and Mexico on Friday, sparking furious reactions from European leaders who had been hoping for an exemption from the measures. In response, the EU has formally complained about the tariffs to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and vowed to hit back with retaliatory tariffs on an array of US products. 'Trade conflict' No last-minute deal: Many officials in the EU were banking on a last-minute breakthrough deal that would have either extended exemptions to the tariffs, which were first introduced for global steel and aluminum imports in late April, or introduced a permanent exclusion from the tariffs. Read more: Opinion: US import tariffs — nerves of steel, round two   What will the EU do? The EU, which has sole control over trade policy for all 28 EU member states, has formally complained about the US tariffs at the WTO. The complaint initiates a long legal process that could take more than a year to complete. In the short term, the EU has also threatened to enact retaliatory tariffs against US products from areas of the country that voted heavily for US President Donald Trump, including Harley Davidson motorcycles and bourbon whiskey. US hope talks will continue: US Treasury Secretary Wilbur Ross had said he hoped the US could continue trade negotiations with the EU, Canada and Mexico despite the tariffs. "We look forward to continued negotiations ... because there are other issues that we also need to get resolved," he said. What are Canada and Mexico doing? Both countries have already announced retaliatory measures. Canada said it would impose tariffs on C$16.6 billion ($12.8 billion, €11 billion) worth of US imports, including whiskey, orange juice, steel, aluminium and other products. Mexico said it would introduce "equivalent" measures US products, including pork legs, apples, grapes, cheese, steel and other goods. What are tariffs? Tariffs amount to a tax that is placed on foreign goods. According to the World Trade Organization (WTO), "tariffs give a price advantage to locally-produced goods over similar goods which are imported, and they raise revenues for governments." amp, ls/aw (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.