US Special Counsel Robert Mueller has accused Trump's embattled former campaign chair, Paul Manafort, of trying to tamper with witnesses while under house arrest.  Mueller, who is leading an investigation into possible collusion between President Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, made the allegations in a court filing on Monday. Read more: Dutch lawyer first person sentenced as part of Robert Mueller's Russia probe In it, his team accuses Manafort and an unnamed associate of trying to call, text and send encrypted messages in February to two potential witnesses at "The Hapsburg Group," a lobbying association of former European officials that promoted the former Ukrainian government's interests. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2mmSP Manafort's communication attempts were part of an effort to try and influence the testimonies of the witnesses, who are not named in the filing, and occurred while he was under house arrest, according to the filing. Read more: European politicians got millions to lobby for pro-Russian government in Ukraine In response, Mueller asked the judge overseeing the case to convene a hearing on whether to revoke the decision that allowed Manafort to be released to home confinement until the start of his trial. Ukrainian connection Since October, Manafort has faced charges of money laundering, fraud and failing to register himself as a representative of a foreign government in connection with his work for Ukraine's former pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych. He has pleaded not guilty. Although a part of the Mueller probe, the charges are not directly linked to the Trump campaign. US intelligence agencies have accused the Russian government of interfering in the 2016 presidential election to try sway the vote in favor of Trump. The president has described the accusations of Russian meddling a "hoax." On Monday, Trump claimed to have an "absolute right" to pardon himself should the special counsel find he interfered in the investigation, an assertation which has been questioned by legal experts. Read more: Donald Trump's 'absolute right to pardon myself' does not exist June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians." An FBI agent told a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, said there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announced it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers. Senator Jeff Sessions - an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee - met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event. Julian Assange's WikiLeaks published 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders. The FBI announced it was investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected president of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov said there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issued a firm denial. Trump named General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Acting attorney general Sally Yates told White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fired Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts. Trump said he had "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI Director James Comey confirmed before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign. In a letter announcing the termination, Trump wrote: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau." Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Shortly after Mueller convenes a grand jury for the investigation, the FBI seizes documents from one of Paul Manafort’s properties as part of a raid for Mueller’s probe. The former Trump campaigner manager stepped down in August 2016 after allegations surfaced that he had received large payments linked to Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government. Donald Trump Jr. tells the Senate Judiciary Committee he has not colluded with a foreign government. The closed-door interview relates to his June 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, which was also attended by his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and then campaign manager Paul Manafort. Trump Jr.’s emails, however, suggest the meeting was supposed to produce dirt on Clinton. Facebook, Twitter and Google reportedly tell US media they have evidence that Russian operatives exploited platforms to spread disinformation during the 2016 US presidential election. The three companies are expected to appear before a Senate Intelligence Committee in November. Author: Jo Harper, Kathleen Schuster amp/se (Reuters, AP, dpa)