Burundi's president, Pierre Nkurunziza, made a surprise announcement Thursday that he would not run in the 2020 election, despite changes to the constitution that would allow him to potentially rule until 2034. Nkurunziza had been expected to take advantage of changes to the constitution passed in a mid-May referendum in order to run for two seven-year terms once his third five-year term ends in 2020. Among the constitutional changes were changing presidential terms from five to seven years and expanding presidential powers. "We assure Burundians and the international community. Our term will end in 2020. This constitution was not modified to favor President Nkurunziza, as the enemies of the country spread recently," 54-year-old former rebel leader said at a ceremony enacting the new constitution in central Gitega province. "I swear and am really ready, with all my heart, with all my mind and with all my strength, to support the new president we will elect in 2020." Nkurunziza has ruled the small East African country since 2005, winning elections at the end of a 12-year ethnically-driven civil war that killed more than 300,000 people. The civil war mirrored that in neighboring Rwanda, pitting minority Tutsis against majority Hutus. Tensions flared in 2015 when Nkurunziza, from the majority ethnic Hutu group, sought and won a third five-year term that his opponents said went against the constitution and peace deal that ended the civil war. The lead up to the election was marked by a failed coup and protests. Since then, violence has killed at least 1,200 people and displaced another 400,000 civilians. The International Criminal Court is currently investigating the state and its agents, including the ruling party's militant youth wing, the "Imbonerakure," for possible crimes against humanity. On May 17, 2018, Burundians overwhelmingly voted for constitutional changes that could potentially see President Pierre Nkurunziza stay in office until 2034. The opposition claimed the vote was marred by intimidation and fraud. In 2015, protests erupted as Nkurunziza announced that he would run for a controversial third term. According to UN reports, at least 1,200 people died during the unrest. In April 2015, President Nkurunziza only had a few months left in office. Burundian law stipulates that a president should only serve for two terms, meaning that Nkurunziza would have had to step down. The president, however, announced that he would stand for another election. In response, the streets of Bujumbura erupted in protest. In May 2015, the demonstrations had developed into a full-blown political crisis. A military coup attempt was quickly quashed. At the same time police and security forces cracked down on protesters and in return, government opponents attacked security officials. Reports of brutality and torture in police custody emerged. On July 21, 2015 Burundians went to the polls. A few days later, Pierre Nkurunziza was declared the winner. The results were to be expected, as the opposition had boycotted the vote. Opposition leader, Agathon Rwasa at first refused to accept the results. To the disappointment of other government critics, he called for a unity government a short while later. In the following months, death threats and assassination attempts against opposition members, critics, but also government officials occured recurrently. Nkurunziza’s security chief, Adolphe Nshimirimana and human rights activist Pierre-Claver Mbonimpa (pictured above) are amongst the most prominent cases. Mbonimpa survived after being shot at least four times but lost his son and son-in-law. On December 11, 2015, government opponents attacked four military bases in Bujumbura. A day later, army troops descended on oppositional strongholds in the capital. Residents reported dozens of deaths. Altogether over 100 people are said to have died during the clashes. As a response the African Union offered to send peacekeeping troops to the country, but Nkurunziza refused any intervention. We can’t ignore such a crisis of such dimension, Adama Dieng, the UN’s special advisor for the prevention of genocide declared in late 2015. Humanitarian crisis was at its peak at the time. To date, nearly 400,000 Burundian refugees still live outside the country. In January 2016, the African Union attempted to mediate in talks between the government and the opposition. Yet the conference in Arusha in neighboring Tanzania was repeatedly postponed. When the talks began in May, a major opposition coalition, CNARED, was excluded and the talks were regarded as a sham from the start. As time passed life returned to normal in the streets of Bujumbura, yet under the surface, political grievances remained the same. In September 2016, UN investigators reported evidence of grave human rights violations including torture and killings through state actors. The investigators also warned about the rising ethnic tension. In the meantime, Nkurunziza‘s government planned constitutional reforms. In August 2016, a government commission proposed changes to the constitution that would scrap presidential term limits. Nkurunziza himself hinted that he was considering a fourth term in office in 2020. At the start of 2017, the political situation remained tense. Militia belonging to the Imbonerakure youth wing continued to spread fear amongst the people. Despite international pressure and sanctions from the European Union, Nkurunziza’s stance remained unchanged. In November 2017, the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague opened an investigation into alleged crimes against humanity in Burundi. The prosecution accused the government of launching a widespread and systematic attack against civilians. A month earlier, Burundi was the first country in Africa to withdraw from the ICC and the Rome Statute. On May 11, 2018 unknown gunmen attacked residents in the province of Cibitoke. At least 26 people died. The government accused 'terrorists' from the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo for the attack. The deadly incident occurred just days ahead of the constitutional referendum on May 17 that could potentially allow Nkurunziza to stay in office until 2034. Author: Jan Philipp Wilhelm Nkurunziza's third term has been marked by heightened authoritarianism and repression, according to human rights groups. A number of opposition political figures have fled the country. The opposition claimed last month's referendum was tainted by intimidation and fraud. Nkurunziza still has 'room to maneuver' Nkurunziza has previously said his third term would be his last, but that he would run again if the people demanded it. His ruling CNDD-FDD party recently declared him "supreme eternal leader." According to Jordan Anderson, an African political risk analyst at IHS Markit, Nkurunziza's statement "leaves him with room to maneuver and plenty of time before 2020 to change this public position." "If we hear messages coming out from CNDD-FDD leaders and the Imbonerakure calling for Nkurunziza to stay on as we move towards 2020, that suggests the way is being prepared for another Nkurunziza about-face on this question," he told DW. In neighboring Rwanda, President Paul Kagame held a similar constitutional referendum in 2015, claiming that it was not about his personal ambitions for power. Two years later he ran and won a third term after saying that he succumbed to the people's pressure to run again.