Two years ago, the Californian villa formerly belonging to Nobel Prize laureate Thomas Mann was to be sold and demolished; the news caused outcry among German authors, publishers and artists.  President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, then Germany's foreign minister, and the commissioner for culture and the media, Monika Grütters, backed the idea of having the building located at 1550 San Remo Drive bought by the German state in order to turn it into a meeting location and memorial site. Dubbed the "white house of exile" by Steinmeier, the acquisition of the villa cost around nearly $13 million (€11 million). It is Steinmeier's first trip to the United States since becoming Germany's president, a largely ceremonial post President Steinmeier, accompanied by numerous fellow campaigners, has now come to visit "his" work for the opening ceremony of the restored house held on Monday. The Nobel Prize-winning author of works including Buddenbrooks, The Magic Mountain and Joseph and His Brothers fled to Switzerland when the Nazis came to power in 1933, moving to the US in 1938. The villa in which Mann once lived is located at the western edge of Los Angeles. With its 489 square meters (5,263 square feet), it's not particularly large, but nevertheless filled with history. During his exile, the writer commissioned architect Julius Ralph Davidson from the city of Breslau, Silesia (now Wroclaw, Poland) to construct the building in which he then lived from 1942 to 1952. He became a leading figure of exiled German intellectuals. "Germany is wherever I am," he told his supporters. Read more: Thomas Mann was disappointed by America's populism German author and Literature Nobel Prize laureate Thomas Mann lived in exile in the US from 1938 to 1952 A residence for scholars The building was renovated over several months for around $5 million. It is to welcome artists and intellectuals through as residency program. Its first guest will be German actor Burghart Klaussner (The White Ribbon), followed by Berlin-based sociologist Jutta Allmendinger, Thomas Mann researcher Heinrich Detering, as well as micro electronics engineer Yiannos Manoli. Another selected fellow was  journalist Sylke Tempel, who however died during a storm in Berlin. Allmendinger told DW that she saw her fellowship as "a huge gift," and she hopes to serve as an "ambassador of Germany in American civil society" during the months she will be living and traveling in the country. The Freiburg-based expert for micro electronics Manoli wants to promote German culture and science during his fellowship: "I'm looking forward to exchanging views with research colleagues," he said. Conserving Thomas Mann's home office During the restoration, it was important to find a "healthy compromise between the respect for the original substance, and the needs of a modern cultural house," said the program director of the Thomas Mann House, Nikolai Blaumer. The villa was the home of Thomas Mann, his wife Katia and their six children. Now, the four fellows will share the main part of the villa while a fifth resident can be accommodated in the guest house at the pool. In his new biography on the Mann family, Tilmann Lahme writes that Thomas Mann's children never managed to free themselves from their father's influence. The book begins in the 1920s, when all six of them have already been born. Pictured with him in 1924, from left to right: His wife Katia, with Monika, Michael, Elisabeth, Klaus and Erika Mann. Golo is missing in the photo. Thomas Mann gained world fame with his first major work, "Buddenbrooks," published in 1901. As hard as his children tried, they would never outdo him. The family called him the "magician," based on his 1924 novel "The Magic Mountain." Mann won the Nobel Prize in 1929. They were "a brother and sister who made their way in the world through their wit, audacity and their father's name," writes Lahme to describe the two older children, Erika and Klaus. They were part of Berlin's artistic scene under the Weimar Republic. Erika was an actress and Klaus established his name as a writer. Pictured here: Gustaf Gründgens, Erika Mann, Pamela Wedekind, and Klaus Mann. Erika Mann married the actor Gustav Gründgens. Klaus Mann got engaged to Pamela Wedekind, but she later married Carl Sternheim, who was the father of a mutual friend, Dorothea. And Erika was actually in love with Pamela. The Mann family would openly speak and write about homosexuality. Klaus Mann wrote about homosexuality in his novel in a clearly autobiographical way. His brother Golo was more discrete about it. He was also a writer, but later became an established historian, who is still recognized to this day. It would also earn him his father's recognition. During the family's exile in the US, as they fled from the Nazis, Erika Mann would develop her political voice and served to a certain extent as the "public relations officer of the family," according to biographer Tilmann Lahme. Erika publicized the Mann family's struggle against Hitler. The entire family was opposed to Hitler earlier than practically all intellectuals at the time. Thomas Mann's brother, author Heinrich Mann, was also one of the strongest voices against the Nazis, but he is not part of Lahme's biography. He chose to focus on Thomas Mann's nuclear family. Exile bound the family together. They relied on each other - financially, too - and couldn't avoid each other. The fact that they could not live in Germany during Nazi rule and were not received with open arms in 1945 strongly contributed to their unhappiness, believes author Tilmann Lahme. The children could hold on to happy memories spent on the Curonian Spit on the Baltic Sea, as pictured here in 1930. Thomas Mann poses with his children Elisabeth and Michael, as well as two other kids, in front of their summer house in Nida. These cheerful days would not guarantee a happy end: Klaus Mann committed suicide in 1949 in Cannes. Thomas Mann died in 1955. The last member of Thomas Mann's immediate family died on February 8, 2002. The youngest daughter was the only one in the family who, according to Lahme, managed to break away from her father's influence. She also happened to be Thomas Mann's favorite child. Just a day before she died, she was skiing in St. Moritz, Switzerland. Author: Sarah Judith Hofmann / eg The historical building has undergone thorough restoration. The building's structure has been maintained, but the interior is completely changed. On the upper floor, there are several smaller rooms that serve as bedrooms. On the ground flour, there is a huge living room with large windows looking onto the garden. The only room that has been kept is the building's historical core, Mann's former study. That's where the Literature Nobel Prize laureate and Hitler opponent wrote his wartime speeches for the BBC, entitled "Deutsche Hörer!" (German listeners!). A second German state residence in Los Angeles Only a few miles away from the Thomas Mann House, there's another artist residence that has been financed by Germany since 1995. The Villa Aurora, a building that also serves as a German-American cultural meeting ground, used to be the home of German-Jewish novelist Lion Feuchtwanger, who also went into exile during World War II. Today, the German film world celebrates its Oscar parties in the writer's former residence. The official inauguration of the Thomas Mann House on Monday, June 18, is an important stop during German Federal President Frank-Walter Steinmeier's trip across California. On Tuesday, he's expected to give the opening speech at the accompanying conference "The Struggle for Democracy" at the Getty Center. Thomas Mann's grandson, Frido Mann, who lived in the house as a child, is expected among the ceremony's guests.