Sweden 1 - 0 South Korea Granqvist 65' Skipper Andreas Granqvist coolly converted a 65th minute penalty awarded after the implementation of VAR to hand Sweden a 1-0 victory over South Korea in a scrappy Group F encounter at the Nizhny Novgorod Stadium. A match both sides were desperate to win after Mexico stunned Germany in the group opener was decided when Viktor Claesson went down under a challenge by Kim Min-woo with referee Joel Aguilar pointing to the spot after consulting the video replay. Swedish striker Marcus Berg had the best opportunity to break the deadlock before the break, but side-footed the ball into the knee of South Korea goalkeeper Jo Hyeon-woo from point blank range in the 21st minute. Jo, a surprise selection between the posts, will take credit for that reflex save, and another early in the second half that denied Ola Toivonen, but he was sent the wrong way by Granqvist's penalty. South Korea came on strong in the closing stages, but did little to trouble Robin Olsen as Sweden saw out the victory. Sweden take on Germany next knowing another win could send the reigning champions out of the competition. Relive the live action below: FULL TIME! Sweden 1-0 South Korea (Granqvist Pen. 65') FULL TIME! For all their endeavour, South Korea didn't have the quality to take the lead or get themselves back into the game as Andreas Granqvist's penalty proved the difference between the two sides. It wasn't the most attractive World Cup performance from Sweden, but they walk away with all three points to join Mexico at the top fo Group F. 90+3' - PENALTY CLAIM! A low cross is blocked and pings around the bodies in the box. South Korea want a penalty. It's not given. 90+1' - CHANCE! A glorious opportunity goes begging. Hwang popped up unmarked at the back post, but couldn't guide his header on target. His chance to be the hero is squandered. 90' - Four minutes of time added on. 88' - The tension is palpable, but it also seems to be preventing both sides from being able to change the scoreline. 85' - Sweden are taking every possible second off the clock. It'll be a huge result for them if they can hold onto this win. 82' - Son's free-kick fails to find a teammate before Lee sees his long-range effort deflected just wide of the target. You have to give it to them, South Korea aren't waving the white flag. 80' - South Korea are desperate to get an equalizer. They just need to show a bit more composure in the final moment. 76' - Sweden have taken their foot off the pedal and are now inviting pressure from the South Koreans. A risky strategy. 72' - It's tough to see South Korea getting back into this game. They haven't been anywhere near as proficient going forward since the restart and seem short of ideas in the final third. Someone needs to grab the game by the scruff of the neck if they're to get anything out of the game. 69' - The atmosphere has been crancked up a level by the traveling Sweden fans. The Scandinavian's have the bit between their teeth as Forsberg has a shot from outside the area blocked. 65' - GOAL! Captain Andreas Granqvist steps up and converts from the spot to put Sweden ahead! The penalty decision was spot on and so was the effort by Granqvist. It's advantage Sweden, who are set to join Mexico at the top of the group as things stand. 63' - PENALTY GIVEN! Sweden have a spot kick. Referee Jose Aguilar has consulted the monitor in the VAR review zone and points to the spot! Claeson got to the ball a split second before Kim Min-woo, who brings him to ground. 62' - PENALTY CLAIM! Sweden have what looks like a strong case for a penalty. Aguilar has waved it away for now. 59' - Hwang outmuscles Granqvist to skate to the byline. Unfortunately for South Korea, his low cross is blocked. 56' - GREAT SAVE! Jo to the rescue again. Sweden are awarded a free-kick in a dangerous area. It's whipped in dangerously towards goal where Toivonen rose highest to force Jo into another tough save. He's keeping South Korea in the game. 52' - Koo picks himself up and, after the free-kick is taken short, glances a near-post header just wide of the target. A chance out of nothing that almost changd the complexion of the game. 51' - Koo Ja-cheol is caught by Sebastian Larsson in midfield and gets a stud rake down the back of his knee for good measure. 49' - CHANCE! Sweden are presented with a chance to counter and duly accept the invitation. Toivonen breaks in behind, gets his head up to pick out Emil forsberg on the edge of the area. The Leipzig star takes a touch before lashing an effort over the bar. Wasted. 47' - Lee Yong rushes a cross which is collected comfortably at the near post by Sweden keeper Olsen. He had time to pick out a teammate there. SECOND HALF! We're back underway between Sweden and South Korea. A goal? Please? HALF TIME! Not the stat you want... HALF TIME! It's hard to know who will be the happier of the two sides at the break. Sweden grew into the game as the half wore on and have created the best chances of the game. South Korea have had less of the ball, but have posed a greater threat going forward. Both will feel they should already be on the scoresheet. 45' - Claeson meets a cross from Lustig with his head and sees his effort deflected behind for a corner... which comes to nothing. 44' - Emil Forsberg has an effort blocked before Jo makes another save to deny Granqvist. 43' - Sweden want the opener. Marcus Berg flashes a cross across the face of goal that just needed a touch before Ola Toivonen is brought down by Ki Sung-yueng. The Swansea midfielder went lunging in, but did get the ball before the man. 40' - A look back at the best chance of the half... Jo Hyeon-woo pulls off a stunning save to deny Marcus Berg from close range. 37' - With Sweden trying to up the pressure even further before the break, South Korea are starting to get in behind more often. Again they break down the right, as Hwang Hee-chan sees his shot blocked by Granqvist who is having a great game at the back. 33' - Son Heung-min finds space out wide on the right and uses his pace to get all the way to the byline. The problem was he didn't have much support and his cut back was cut out by Sweden. 29' - A corner for Sweden goes to the back post, but both the initial header and the follow up effort from Marcus Berg are blocked. 28' - South Korea are temporarily down to ten men after Park Joo-ho goes down on the left wing away from the ball clutching his thigh. It doesn't look like the left-back is going to be able to continue. 25' - Watching this game, you have to think that Germany will be feeling a little bit better about their chances of still getting out of Group F despite that loss to Mexico. Neither Sweden, nor South Korea are playing with the same intensity levels Mexico displayed. 21' - CHANCE! Sweden go so close to taking the lead. A goalmouth scramble sees the ball bundled through to Marcus Berg, who sees his effort from six yards saved. The resulting corner is headed wide of the target by Jansson. 18' - Sweden almost carve South Korea apart. A one-two between Andreas Granqvist and Marcus Berg causes problems, but the captain was just beaten to the return pass by a last-ditch challenge in the box. Clean. No penalty. 16' - Son Heung-min looks set to break free, but Pontus Jansson stands his ground to stop the Tottenham man in his tracks. 14' - Sweden push into the final third for the first time in the game. The intial chance is wasted when Toivonen went for one pass too many in the box before the cross that followed was collected by Jo Hyeon-woo. 11' - Who remembers Ahn Jung-hwan? Good times! 9' - Shin Tae-yong's side are enjoying an extended period of pressure, but need to start turning it into goalscoring chances. Right now, Sweden appear comfortable absorbing the early pressure. 6' - A free-kick for South Korea comes to nothing following a foul on Ola Toivonen. 5' - South Korea are starting to take assert a measure of control on proceedings. Robin Olsen is forced to punch clear under pressure from a corner, but it's definitely Son and Co. setting the tempo of the game. 3' - In light of Germany's loos to Mexico, this is a must-win game for both sides. Neither wants to be the first to make a mistake and you can tell in the opening exchanges. KICK OFF! - Referee Joel Aguilar blows his whistle and we're underway with Monday's World Cup action. What twists and turns does today have in store for us? Germany for one wouldn't mind this game ending in a draw. Sweden and South Korea will have other ideas though! 13:59 CET - Son ready to step up There's no getting away from the fact that there's a weighty amount of expectation surrounding Son Heung-min's performance at this World Cup. Can he carry them to victory? He's a familiar face to Bundesliga fans, who saw him break onto the scene with Hamburg and Bayer Leverkusen. Son Heung-min's talent was clear for all to see from an early age. 13:56 CET - Can South Korea buck the trend? Good omens for Sweden, but there is a first time for everything, right? 13:52 CET - The Swedes are taking over! Sweden had a tough route to the World Cup finals and, looking to get their campaign off on the right foot, they have quite the supporting cast if this video is anything to go by!  13:50 CET - So do we KPB... 13:45 CET - TEAM NEWS! The lineups are out for the first of this Monday's matches at the World Cup in Russia: Sweden:  Robin Olsen, Mikael Lustig, Andreas Granqvist (C), Ludwig Augustinsson, Pontus Jansson, Sebastian Larsson, Albin Ekdal, Emil Forsberg, Viktor Claesson, Marcus Berg, Ola Toivonen South Korea:  Jo Hyeon-woo, Yong Lee, Park Joo-ho, Kim Young-gwon, Jang Hyun-soo, Koo Ja-cheol, Ki Sung-yueng (C), Lee Jae-sung, Son Heung-min, Kim Shin-wook, Hwang Hee-chan 13:40 CET - Upper hand on offer in Group F Welcome back to DW's live coverage of the World Cup 2018. It's Day 5 of the summer showpiece in Russia and, after Germany's loss to Mexico, Group F opponents Sweden and South Korea have a chance to bolster their prospects of reaching the knockout stages in today's first game. Can Sweden get the job done with Zlatan Ibrahimovic's shadow still looming large over the national team? Or will South Korea cause another upset to blow Group F wide open? Read more: Germany embarrassed by passionate Mexico