DW: Will the general election in Pakistan be held on time? Sherry Rehman: There is no reason to delay the July 25 polls. They should be held on time in accordance with constitutional requirements. Pakistan is facing many challenges and cannot afford more political instability. The international community is observing the situation in Pakistan. Read more: Pakistan: Will general elections be held on time? Former PM Nawaz Sharif has taken on an aggressive stance against the military dominance. Some analysts say that your party, with its long history of challenging the powerful generals, should side with Sharif this time. What is your take on it? The Pakistan People's Party (PPP) does not believe in hate-driven politics. We also don't agree with Sharif's politics. Unlike him, we have ideological clarity, especially on how to counter violent extremism in Pakistan. In the past, Sharif had bypassed democratic norms as well as parliament. We supported his government in 2013 in order to stabilize democracy in Pakistan, but he mistook it for personal support. The former premier does not represent democracy, especially when we know that his party and his lawmakers made a mockery of parliament. Sharif only talks about democracy when he needs to bail himself out. The five years of Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) rule has left behind huge debts and acute water and power shortages. The PPP will align with only those that support democratic practices, not those who invoke democracy when they are in hot water. Read more: Opinion: Pakistan needs ex-PM Sharif's political role now more than ever Pakistan appoints former chief justice as interim premier Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2hKs2 The media in Pakistan have come under immense pressure, with rights activists saying the military establishment is attempting to stifle voices that oppose its dominance in politics. Does it not amount to pre-poll rigging? With dramatic shifts in power structures — not just in Pakistan but also globally — those who dare to challenge them, find themselves in a tough spot. As a parliamentarian, it's my duty to ensure that constitutional rights are not violated in my country. The Senate's Committee on Human Rights is available to all media persons so that they can lodge their complaints to the body. We are against constraints on media and we stand for freedom of expression. How do you view the political role of your party's chairman Bilawal Bhutto? Bhutto is young but undaunted and very clear about empowering the downtrodden. He wants to empower the youth so that they can contribute to Pakistan's economy and society. His vision has attracted people in all four provinces of the country. We are seeing a surge in the political participation of young and educated people in Pakistan. Read more: Benazir Bhutto: Former Pakistani PM 'was highly undemocratic' Pakistan has moved beyond Benazir Bhutto Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2mKjY Ties between the US and Pakistan have been deteriorating for quite some time. As a former Pakistan ambassador to the US, what do you think needs be done to remedy the situation? I think that responsible nations like Pakistan and the US should always try to approach conflicts rationally. The future of global stability lies in bilateral solutions to our problems. Read more: US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution Recently, Pakistan and India agreed to revive the 2003 Kashmir border ceasefire agreement. Is it a sign that Indian-Pakistani ties could be improved? If Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government wants to move past hostilities, I believe Pakistan will not walk away from any multilateral dialogue. A thaw in relations is necessary for the two nuclear-armed nations to address challenges in the South Asian region. The incumbent Indian government needs to understand that blaming Pakistan for global problems like terrorism will not benefit anyone. It also needs to reevaluate its Kashmir policy. Read more: What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about? Pakistan, which shares a long, porous border with Afghanistan, is fighting terrorism on its own. Terrorism, in my opinion, is almost always linked to violent extremism. The latter is increasingly becoming a new global norm, evident by the rise of hyper-nationalisms in many parts of the world. In India, for example, Muslims are being targeted by extremists, while secular India struggles to fight back. We admit that we need to do more to provide security to our citizens. But terrorism is not just a regional problem, but a global challenge. Read more: UN calls for Kashmir inquiry into alleged human rights abuses Will former wife's 'tell-all' book hurt Imran Khan in upcoming Pakistan election? Sherry Rehman is Pakistan's leader of the opposition in the Senate (upper house of parliament). She had been Pakistan's ambassador to the United States from 2011 to 2013. The interview was conducted by Beenish Javed. The Haqqani Network was formed by Jalaluddin Haqqani, who fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s. At the time, the mujahideen (Islamic fighters) enjoyed US backing. In 1995, the Haqqani Network allied with the Taliban and the two groups captured the Afghan capital Kabul in 1996. In 2012, the US designated the group a terrorist organization. Jalaluddin Haqqani was born in 1939 in the Afghan province Paktia. He studied at Darul Uloom Haqqania, which was founded in 1947 by the father of one of Pakistan's most prominent religious leaders, Maulana Sami ul Haq. Darul Uloom Haqqania is known for its alleged ties with the Taliban and other extremist groups. Jalaluddin was made minister for Afghan tribal affairs under the Taliban rule. He remained in the post until the US toppled the Taliban regime in 2001. After the Taliban leader Mullah Omar, Jalaluddin was considered the most influential militant figure in Afghanistan. Jalaluddin also had close links with the former al Qaeda leader, Osama bin Laden. Security experts say the command center of the group is based in Miranshah city of Pakistan's North Waziristan region along the Afghan border. US and Afghan officials claim the Haqqani Network is backed by the Pakistani military, a charge denied by Pakistani authorities. Washington says the group's fighters launch attacks on foreign and local troops and civilians inside Afghanistan. It is believed that Jalaluddin Haqqani died in 2015, but his group denied those reports at the time. The network is now headed by Sirajuddin Haqqani, Jalaluddin's son. Sirajuddin is also the deputy chief of the Taliban. Although there isn't much credible information available about Sirajuddin Haqqani, security experts say he spent his childhood in the Pakistani city of Miranshah. He studied at Darul Uloom Haqqania, situated in Peshawar's suburbs. Sirajuddin is believed to be an expert on military affairs. Some analysts say Sirajuddin's views are more hard line than his father's. One of Jalaluddin's sons is Anas Haqqani, whose mother hailed from the United Arab Emirates. He is currently in the custody of the Afghan government and is facing the death penalty. The Haqqani Network has warned Kabul of dire consequences if Afghan authorities hang Anas Haqqani. Research institutes and Afghan affairs experts say the group has between three and ten thousand fighters. The network allegedly receives most of its funding from the Gulf countries. The Haqqani Network is also involved in kidnappings and extortion through which it funds its operations. The Haqqanis have close relations with other regional and international terrorist organizations such as al Qaeda, the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Lashkar-e-Taiba and Central Asian Islamist groups. Jalauddin Haqqani was not only close to bin Laden, but also had ties with al Qaeda's current chief Ayman al-Zawahiri. Author: Atif Baloch