The football thriller in Kaliningrad between Switzerland and Serbia will be reviewed by FIFA for its political messages and may end in disciplinary action against two Swiss players, FIFA said on Saturday. Granit Xhaka and Xherdan Shaqiri celebrated their goals against Serbia by displaying the Albania national double-headed eagle symbol with their hands. All political messages or symbols in stadiums are banned by FIFA. If the soccer governing body concludes that Xhaka and Shaqiri violated the rule, both could be banned for up to two games. Though they hold Swiss nationality, the two players trace their roots to Kosovo, a former province of Serbia that declared independence in 2008, a move that Belgrade does not yet recognize. Read more: Switzerland salvage a win against Serbia Balkan roots Thousands of Kosovo Albanians fled rising ethnic tensions in the 1990s that culminated in a bloody 1998-99 war of independence between ethnic Albanians and Serb forces. Shaqiri was born in Kosovo and his parents were among those who fled, settling in Switzerland. Xhaka was born in Switzerland to Albanian parents and his brother, Taulant Xhaka, is also a footballer who plays for Albania's national team. In a post-match interview, Shaquiri did not shy away from his controversial goal celebration. "The victory was for my family, which I always support," the football player said to Swiss broadcaster SRF. "The celebration was not a message to the opponent," he added. Read more: The Balkans: From Yugoslav wars to an ever-tense peace Political reactions The player's message was well received in both Kosovo and Albania. Kosovar President Hashim Thaci wrote on Twitter: "Congratulations to goalscorers Xhaka, Shaqiri and entire #Switzerland on a well deserved win! Proud of you." He finished his tweet: "Kosova ju don!" — an Albanian phrase meaning "Kosovo loves you!" Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama posted on his Facebook page photos of Shaqiri and Xhaka with their hands crossed in the two-headed eagle symbol and wrote: "Photo of the day." Xherdan Shaqiri's right foot boot displays the flag of Kosovo Serbian outrage The contentious match drew the ire of the Serbian coach Mladen Krstajic, not just because of the Kosovo-related celebration, but also due to a ruling that he felt should have concluded with a penalty kick for Serbia after being reviewed. But in his criticism, the coach dove in with political rhetoric. On German referee Felix Brych's performance, Krstajic said "I would not give him a yellow or a red card. I would send him to The Hague so that he can be judged as they do to us." The comment was in reference to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia trials of Serbians who took part in the Yugoslav wars. The statement will now be reviewed by FIFA as part of the disciplinary investigation into the match. FIFA has also opened disciplinary proceedings against the Serbian Football Association for crowd disturbance and display of political and offensive messages by Serbian fans during the game. Read more: 'EU must recognize historic opportunity to solve Kosovo issue' Other World Cup disciplinary action The Swiss and Serbian football organizations are not the only ones under the eye of FIFA's disciplinary board. The Polish Football Association was fined 10,000 Swiss francs ($10,100, €8,671) and given a warning by FIFA on Saturday for a banner that was deemed political and offensive, displayed during its game against Senegal on Tuesday in Moscow. Argentina and Croatia also face disciplinary proceedings for crowd disturbances during their game on Thursday in Nizhny Novgorod. FIFA is also considering disciplinary action against Mexico for fans using an anti-gay slur during Sunday game against Germany. Toni Kroos curls home Germany's 95th-minute winner against Sweden. Despite a positive start in Sochi, the same carelessness which had been so costly against Mexico was present again, and Kroos was a major culprit. But the Real Madrid star demonstrated all his experience and class with this free-kick to spare the reigning champions' blushes. Xherdan Shaqiri celebrates his dramatic stoppage time winner over Serbia by making an Albainian eagle gesture with his hands. He and fellow goalscorer Granit Xhaka, who also made the gesture, are of Albanian descent, their families having fleed to Switzerland during the Balkan war. The pair were booed throughout by the match by Serbia fans. If Germany have it bad after their defeat to Mexico, Argentina's second match against Croatia put the giants in dire straits. Slumping to a 3-0 defeat, triggered by a goalkeeping howler, Lionel Messi and co. no longer have their group stage fate in their own hands. Messi, 30, has already "retired" briefly from international football once before; if he goes to Qatar, it surely won't be at his peak. Disgraced former FIFA president Sepp Blatter made a shock appearance as Portugal beat Morocco 1-0 on Wednesday. The 82-year-old said he was invited to the tournament by Russian President Vladimir Putin. His successor Gianni Infantino was also at the fixture, according to FIFA's list of dignitaries. "I am still president, just suspended," Blatter told Russian channel RT. Less than a month after the Champions League final, when he sustained a shoulder injury that some thought could threaten his World Cup, Mohamed Salah returned to the pitch. Liverpool's Egyptian king first drew a foul that led to a penalty and then converted from the spot. But it was a mere consolation as Egypt lost 3-1 to hosts Russia and lost their chance of progressing to the knockout stage. Harry Kane scored England's first ever second-half stoppage time World Cup goal to give the Three Lions all three points against Tunisia. Kane had given England a deserved early lead before Tunisia equalized with a controversial penalty. But captain Kane popped up again in injury time with a back-post header to win it for Gareth Southgate's team. Germany lost their first match at a World Cup for the first time since 1982, when West Germany lost 2-1 to Algeria. This time they fell 1-0 to Mexico. Joachim Löw's men were beaten by a better organized and more energetic Mexican side. Even Germany's No. 1, Manuel Neuer, couldn't prevent the defeat. Undeterred by the driving rain, Icelandic fans in Reykjakvik followed their team's first-ever World Cup match on large video screens set up in the heart of the capital. After the match, they celebrated their team's 1-1 draw with 2014 finalists Argentina as if it had been a victory. Superstar Lionel Messi and the rest of the Argentinian national team had their problems with Iceland in their opening match in Group D. The 2014 finalists could only manage a 1-1 draw, and Messi, the five-time world footballer of the year, often looked very ordinary indeed. In the 64th minute, he even failed to score from the penalty spot. Shortly before the match between Iran and Morocco kicked off, the Iranian government banned outdoor public gatherings to watch the game. In St. Petersburg, though, Iranian women, who would not be allowed into a stadium in their homeland, took the opportunity to make their view known. One of the lowest-profile opening games to grace any World Cup wasn't much of a contest. Russia were far too good for a poor Saudi Arabia side and ran out 5-0 winners. Denis Cheryshev (center) came off the bench to score the second and added another sensational strike in injury time. The opening fixture of this year's tournament between two of the world's biggest gas exporters, Saudi Arabia and Russia, was ironically dubbed "El Gasico" by some fans. Here, Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman Al Saud chats to FIFA President Gianni Infantino, while Russian President Vladimir Putin watches the action. Putin (second from left) also made an appearance before the opening with a plethora of footballing greats. Lothar Matthäus (far left), Pele and Maradona (center), Jay Jay Okocha (far right) and Kanu (back right) were also in attendance. More than 500 local dancers, gymnasts and performers joined pop star Robbie Williams and Russian soprano Aida Garifullina on stage at the tournament's opening ceremony. Shorter than most such events, the 15-minute-long display also featured speeches from Russian President Vladimir Putin and FIFA President Gianni Infantino. jcg/sms (dpa, AFP, EFE, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.