+++ Refresh page for live updates +++ Brazil 1-0 Switzerland (Coutinho 20') 27' - Both players appear to be ok to continue... 25' - A clash of heads between Casemiro and Fabian Schär gives everyone a minute to catch their breathe and recover. 23' - Switzerland have responded well to going behind and don't appear to be shell shocked. They only went behind to a moment of individual brilliance. 20' - GOAL! Coutinho has hit one of the sweetest strikes in World Cup history to put Brazil ahead. The Barcelona forward picks up the ball just outside the area, swivles his hips to get his body around the ball before bending a delightful effort in off the far post - all in the blink of an eye. Samba sensation! 18' - There are roars from the crowd in Rostov every time Brazil push into the final third. They're ready to explode if the South Americans can find the final pass to unlock this stubborn Swiss side. 15' - Brazil are awarded a free-kick 25 yards from goal. Neymar steps up... and puts his effort into the wall. 12' - CHANCE! The first clear-cut opportunity goes Brazil's way. They up the tempo in a split second, but Paulinho can't turn a pull back on target as it trickles agonizingly wide of the far post. 11' - Switzerland are trying to probe their way forward, but seem wary of over committing. 9' - Brazil have a chance to break forward on the counter for the first time, but a misplaced pass stops them in their tracks. 6' - Both sides are feeling each other out at present. Neither wants to be the first to make a mistake. 4' - Brazil are enjoying plenty of possession in the opening exchanges, but Switzerland are biding their time before pressing the South Americans off the ball. KICK OFF! - We're still reeling from Germany's defeat to Mexico, but let's see what Brazil and Switzerland have in store for their bows in Russia. 19:55 - It's a full-strength Brazil side for the nation's opening match of Russia 2018. Neymar spearheads an attacking group well balanced with the inclusion of the tireless Willian on the opposite flank. Talented Manchester City striker Gabriel Jesus is tasked with knocking them in, while, further back, Coutinho will provide the ammunition. Switzerland's bloated FIFA ranking has many believing this could be their year. We'll know far more about their credentials in 90 minutes. It's got cracker written all over it.