US President Donald Trump on Friday threatened to impose a 20 percent tariff on US imports of vehicles assembled in the European Union, in a move that would hit German automakers hard. Trump threatened to escalate a trade war after the EU on Friday imposed retaliatory tariffs worth €2.8 billion ($3.26 billion) in response US tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum imports. Read more:  EU's retaliatory tariffs on US products come into effect "Based on the Tariffs and Trade Barriers long placed on the U.S. and its great companies and workers by the European Union, if these Tariffs and Barriers are not soon broken down and removed, we will be placing a 20% Tariff on all of their cars coming into the US," Trump tweeted. "Build them here!" Last month, the Trump administration launched an investigation into whether the import of vehicles and automotive parts pose a national security threat. The investigation is expected to be finished in late July or August. Trump used national security provisions in US trade law to impose steel and aluminum tariffs. The US president has long attacked Germany's auto industry, saying that they are flooding the US market with automobiles and contributing to trade imbalances. At a rally in Minnesota on Wednesday, he claimed that the EU had imposed barriers against US carmakers, "Yet they sell Mercedes and BMW, and the cars come in by the millions, and we hardly tax them at all. They don't take our cars. And, if they do, the tax is massive." The US imposes a tariff of 2.5 percent on EU-assembled cars and a 25 percent levy on trucks. The EU imposes a 10 percent tariff on imports of US cars. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/306Np German automakers Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW all have assembly plants in the United States to produce for the domestic market as well as for export. The French automaker of Peugeot and Citroen cars, PSA, and Renault don't ship any cars for sale in the US. Italy's Fiat Chrysler has auto parts and assembly plants in the United States and Mexico. The three German car companies produce more vehicles in the United States than they export to the United States from Germany, according to industry data. German auto manufacturers sold 1.35 millon vehicles in the United States in 2017, accounting for 7.9 percent of the US market, according to Germany's VDA automobile industry association. According to VDA data, 493,643 cars were exported from Germany to the United States. Read more: US trade with the EU, Germany in numbers Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/303cW Automakers warn against tariffs The VDA did not respond to Trump's latest threat, but earlier in the week it warned in a statement against taking measures against World Trade Organization rules. "The German automotive industry appeals for continued talks with the US in order to strengthen transatlantic relations and resolve existing problems. Trade barriers can only be eliminated by both sides," it said. "The heavy investment by the German automotive industry contributes to prosperity in the US." The Auto Alliance, a trade group of automobile manufacturers that represents 70 percent of US car and light truck sales, said, "Tariffs are not the right approach." "Tariffs raise vehicle prices for our customers, limit consumer choice and invite retaliatory action by our trading partners. Automakers support reducing trade barriers across the board and achieving fairness through facilitating rather than inhibiting trade,” Auto Alliance said in a statement Friday. The European Union is the US' largest export market, accounting for about one-fifth of all US exports. Similarly, one-fifth of EU exports go to the United States. EU-US trade in goods and services was €1,069.3 billion in 2017. The EU imported €256.2 billion in goods from the US, and exported €375.8 billion. The main exports and imports between the EU and US fall into the categories of machinery and vehicles, chemicals and other manufactured goods. Combined, they accounted for 89 percent of EU exports and imports with the US in 2017. In all three categories, as well as food and drink, the EU had a trade surplus. The US had a trade surplus in raw materials and energy. At €167 billion, machinery and vehicles were the largest EU export category to the US, accounting for 44.4 percent of goods exports. The €111.5 billion in machinery and transport equipment was the largest EU import from the US, accounting for 43.6 percent of imports. At the end of May, the Trump administration imposed a 25 percent tariff on EU steel and 10 percent tariff on aluminum. Steel and aluminum exports to the United States were worth €3.58 billion in 2017. In response, the European Union has developed a list of products it may subject to retaliatory tariffs. These include typical American products like peanut butter, bourbon whiskey, Harley Davidson motorcycles, jeans and orange juice. The exports targeted by the EU are worth about €2.8 billion annually, according to EU officials. For services, the EU imports amounted to €219.3 billion and exports €218 billion. The top services were in professional and management services, intellectual property, travel and education. About a third of EU-US trade consists of intra-company transfers. Author: Chase Winter Moving closer to major trade war Trump's announcement on automobile tariffs added fuel to anxiety-gripped markets, as the US and China are poised to escalate a trade war. Trump on Monday threatened to impose tariffs of $200 billion of Chinese goods if Beijing retaliates following US plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese imports into the US. Trump administration policies have also escalated trade conflict with Canada, Mexico, Turkey and India. "The US-EU trade dispute, when viewed alongside the US-China trade tensions, means that we are edging closer to a full-blown global trade war," John Ferguson, the head of global forecasting at the Economist Intelligence Unit, told the AFP news agency. "The concern here is how Mr. Trump responds — he may look to enact further tariffs, or even subsidize US farmers who are likely to feel the brunt of the tariffs from US trading partners," he said. "Both of these moves from Mr. Trump would likely lead to a further response from the EU, and this is how a trade war breaks out." cw/sms (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)