In his first speech to parliament, Italy's new prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, outlined his government's plans for economic growth, opposing "golden pensions" and opening up to Russia. He told Italy's Senate on Tuesday that if "populism" means the ruling class listens to the needs of the people and "anti-system" removes old privileges and encrusted power, then his Cabinet deserves to be called both.   After Conte's speech, the Senate approved the trust of his government 171 - 117 with 25 abstentions.   Highlights of Giuseppe Conte's speech:  Migration: Foreign policy: Read more: Italy's populist coalition names Giuseppe Conte as pick to be prime minister Eurozone: Public finances: Italian President Sergio Mattarella shakes hands with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte during the swearing-in ceremony for Italy's new government Pensions and wages: Read more: Political novice Giuseppe Conte sworn in as Italy's new PM Who is Giuseppe Conte? Conte was a little-known 53-year-old political novice who was picked by the right-wing League and 5-Star Movement (M5S) as a compromise figure for prime minister. He now leads Western Europe's first populist government after three months of political and financial turmoil in Italy. Why are critics skeptical of Italy's new government? The unlikely coalition of right-wing and anti-establishment parties is on a possible collision course with other EU member states after announcing spending plans likely to increase the country's already towering public debt. Analysts say a government of two euroskeptic parties — bitter rivals during the election campaign — creates uncertainty. What happens next? Conte will deliver a similar address before Italy's lower Chamber of Deputies on Wednesday which will be followed by a second confidence vote. Meanwhile European Union interior ministers were meeting on Tuesday to discuss possible reforms to the controversial Dublin regulation. Giuseppe Conte, a little-known law professor with no political experience, was picked by the League and 5-Star Movement (M5S) as their candidate for prime minister. He was forced to temporarily give up his leadership bid after the parties' cabinet selection was initially blocked. However, after the two parties struck a deal with President Sergio Mattarella, Conte was eventually sworn in on June 1. President Sergio Mattarella faced calls for his impeachment after he prevented the populist alliance from taking office. He singled out its choice for finance minister, Paolo Savona, warning that an openly euroskeptic minister in that position went against the parties' joint promise to simply "change Europe for the better." After the parties agreed to replace Savona, Mattarella gave the go-ahead. M5S chief Luigi Di Maio secured his party 32 percent of the vote in the March election. With the populist M5S-League coalition in power, Di Maio assumed the role of joint deputy prime minister and took over the economic development portfolio. The M5S leader has come under fire for his anti-immigration rhetoric, including calling rescue missions to save migrants from drowning a "sea-taxi service." Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in the March election. A former MEP, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini has taken on the position of interior minister within Conte's Cabinet. Known for his hostile rhetoric toward immigrants and the EU, Salvini once described the euro a "crime against humanity." Paola Savona, initially tipped to lead the Finance Ministry, has called the euro a "German cage" and said that Italy needs a plan to leave the single currency. The 81-year-old's stance won him the backing of most Italian lawmakers but that wasn't enough to stop his appointment being vetoed. In his place steps Giovanni Tria, an economics professor without any previous government experience. Carlo Cottarelli was set to become Italy's caretaker prime minster after the M5S-League alliance failed to have its controversial cabinet picks approved. The former IMF economist's time in the spotlight was short-lived, however. Political uncertainty in Italy rocked Europe's financial markets and prompted Mattarella to swiftly renegotiate and approve Salvini and Di Maio's governing coalition. Silvio Berlusconi (right) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electoral alliance including League in the March election that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinizing opposition." Author: Chase Winter Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/kms (AFP, Reuters)