The northern Greek city of Pella was once the capital of ancient Macedonia, but you wouldn't know it by a visit today. Here in this region, where Alexander the Great once staked out his empire, unemployment is 30 percent. That is just one reason people are angry at Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. It is also here, less than an hour's drive from the Macedonian border, that resistance to the current rapprochement policy between Athens and Skopje is fiercest. Beyond the archaeological excavation sites in the old city, there is little to see in Pella. But on this afternoon, music is blaring from loudspeakers as throngs of people are pushing their way through streets normally scattered with school groups or history-minded tourists. Read more: Greece-Macedonia name dispute compromise faces stiff opposition In Pella and 23 other cities around the country, people, mostly conservative, are taking to the streets to demonstrate for a Macedonia that is exclusively Greek. "Almost everyone in the city is opposed to them up there calling themselves Macedonia, even if they put 'north' in front of it. Macedonia is Greece," explains one young woman. Hands off Macedonia! Interest groups, some supported by the church as well as opposition parties, helped bus residents from across the region to today's demonstration. The small city is awash in a sea of Greek flags. At some souvenir stands, yellow Byzantine flags adorned with black eagles — often a favorite of nationalists — can also be seen. T-Shirts printed with the words: "Macedonia is Greece," send a clear message to both countries' governments: Keep your hands off our history! As well as Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the geographic region of Macedonia extends into Albania, Bulgaria and Serbia as well as small areas of Kosovo (which you can't quite see here). The ancient kingdom of Macedonia – or Macedon – was a relatively small part of the present day Greek province of Macedonia. It first expanded under King Perdiccas I, then widened to take in other areas. After the fall of the Greek Empire, the Romans – who admired Alexander – used the old name Macedonia for the province encompassing much of northern Greece and the area north of it – including much of the modern-day Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. With the breakup of the Roman Empire into East and West, this region was overrun by the Slavic invasions. An entirely new province far to the east, including part of Thrace in modern-day Turkey, was named Macedonia by the Byzantine Empress Irene of Athens. The geographic region known as Macedonia today roughly equates to the part of the Ottoman Empire known as Ottoman Vardar Macedonia. It included Greek and Slavic areas and was split into three administrative units, but the concept of Macedonia persisted. This remained the case for centuries and so this concept – of what Macedonia is – has stuck. ...and there's certainly a fair bit of overlap — and room for confusion. Of course, Macedonia's King Alexander the Great's realm stretched all the way to India — but it would be a bit of a stretch to call that Macedonia As if it weren’t complicated enough, there’s another meaning of the word Macedonia. In Greece and many Latin-language-speaking countries, it’s also a fruit salad. The name is thought to have ben popularized at the end of the 18th century, referring to either the ethnic diversity of Alexander's vast empire or the ethnic mix of Ottoman Macedonia. Author: Richard Connor "Look at the excavation sites. Everything they find is written in Greek! None of it is Slavic," the region's mayor bellows into the microphone. The crowd cheers. One young man carries a sign that directly addresses Zoran Zaev, the Macedonian prime minister: "Zaev! You can't choose to be a Macedonian, you have to be born one!" The demonstrators here agree: Macedonia belongs to the Greeks. Dissenting opinions in areas like this are difficult to come by. Read more: Macedonia: What's in a name? In the end, most people could care less what their northern neighbors choose to call themselves — just as long as the word Macedonia isn't part of the name. "It's not our problem that they have been living a lie lately," complains an old man. Wind in the conservatives' sails Most people's anger is directed at Prime Minister Tsipras and Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias. Despite a number of setbacks in recent weeks, both are convinced that a solution is around the corner. On Monday, Kotzias asked citizens to "just stay patient for a couple more days." Recently an agreement looked to be at hand, then it suddenly fell apart. Opposition parties in Skopje are also against a compromise. Athens' calls for an "erga omnes" (toward all) legal solution which would also be accompanied by constitutional changes, and thus be internationally binding, have garnered little support in Skopje. That was one of the reasons recent demonstrations in Macedonia's capital mirrored those held in Greece. They were marked by an excess of nationalist polemic and little appreciation for mutually acceptable compromise. In Greece, a constitutional amendment would not be enough of a compromise for Greek citizens, either. "History cannot be built on lies. It won't change anything if you carve it in stone now!" a speaker screams into the microphone. Greek religious leaders have been relatively quiet when it comes to the name dispute Meanwhile, many conservative leaders in Greece have remained conspicuously silent. Even the church announced that this was an issue for politicians to resolve, not religious figures. Conservative opposition leader Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who rarely misses an opportunity to attack Tsipras, has also been astonishingly quiet. He told fellow party members that it was up to them to decide if they wanted to participate in demonstrations or not. Several showed up, many stayed home. Nevertheless, the usual war of words between politicians from the left and the right has remained relatively calm. Read more: EU backs opening accession talks with Albania, Macedonia It seems Tsipras' opponents can just lean back and watch for the moment. Mitsotakis is keeping an eye on the fact that the EU and NATO both support a solution favoring Macedonia. Should voters support his party in next year's Greek parliamentary elections, it would seem clever to not lean in too hard on the matter now. Ultimately, Mitsotakis wants to make sure he keeps all international doors open. Moreover, the conflict is simmering enough without him needing to turn up the flame. Even if Athens and Skopje reach a compromise on the name in the coming days or weeks, that certainly won't be the end of the story for people in Pella.