The green tea boost A compound found in green tea might protect against atherosclerosis, which commonly causes heart attacks or strokes. In atherosclerosis, plaques build up within the blood vessels, reducing the blood flow and increasing the risk for cardiovascular diseases. Green tea has been found to have many health benefits. Now researchers at Lancaster University and the University of Leeds in the UK havediscovered that a compound called epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) can bind to a protein that sits on the plaques in the blood vessels. With the drug heparin, EGCG breaks that protein down, allowing for a better blood flow. The researchers hope that these findings will allow them to develop better medication for strokes and heart attacks. Until then, drink some green tea once in a while. It is definitely good for you. Walk faster, live longer Walking at an average pace of five to seven kilometers per hour could reduce your risk of dying of a cardiovascular disease. That is the result of a recent study, which analyzed the walking data of more than 50,000 people. The researchers divided the data into three walking paces – slow, average, brisk – and linked it to mortality records.They found that average-to-brisk walkers had a more than 20 percent lower risk of dying of cardiovascular disease. Especially older people aged 60 and above had benefits from walking fast: Average-pace walkers had a 46 percent lower chance of dying of a cardiovascular disease, and brisk walkers had a 53 percent reduction. So next time you're walking, up your pace a little! If you're slightly out of breath or sweating, you're doing the right thing. Activated charcoal – not so coo(a)l after all! It has been hailed as a superfood, teeth whitener and miracle skin care, but activated charcoal isn't all it's made out to be. Activated charcoal is traditionally used as medication against poisoning because it can bind to the toxic substances within the digestive system. This binding-ability is the reason it has been marketed as a "detox” panacea. But there is a hitch: activated charcoal binds everything in its way. This can be a problem if you take your medication together with your detox-charcoal-smoothie. The charcoal can bind to the medication and render it useless. Activated charcoal toothpaste is also a current trend. But researchers have found that charcoal toothpaste has none of the advertised benefits: it doesn't whiten teeth, it doesn't have antimicrobial properties, and it can even destroy the tooth enamel. Studies of cosmetic products containing charcoal have even found that they can contain carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. So, all in all, maybe it's best to stick to fruit smoothies, normal toothpaste and standard skin care products instead. Activated charcoal is seen as a superfood, but it might not be as great as you think! Fat doesn't necessarily mean fat When people start talking about fat in foods, stop them right there. There isn't only one type of fat, there are several. Some are healthy, others not so much. Let's start with the baddies: saturated fatty acids and trans-fatty acids. Saturated fatty acids are contained in red, fatty meat, sausage and whole milk products. They increase our blood lipid levels and can damage our blood vessels, which increases our risk for cardiovascular diseases. You can eat them, but in moderation. Trans-fatty acids are a type of saturated fatty acids. Occurring as a result of industrial food production, they are very unhealthy and can be found in crisps, sweets, fries and ready meals. Stick to unsaturated fatty acids instead: They keep your cardiovascular system healthy. You can find them in nuts, vegetable oils, and avocados. Polyunsaturated fatty acids cannot be produced by your body in large amounts, which is why you need to include them in your diet through herring or salmon as well as rapeseed oil and linseed oil. They contain omega-3- and omega-6-fatty acids. Major no-booze benefits The fact that alcohol can harm our health is nothing new. But recently, UK researchers have published the first study showing that to give up the booze for just one month has huge health benefits. They studied more than 140 moderate-to-heavy drinkers, 94 of whom gave up alcohol for one month, while the others continued drinking. The change was astonishing: After one month the abstainers' insulin resistance fell by 26 percent, meaning their bodies' insulin had become more effective in removing sugar from their blood. This drastically lowered their risk for type 2 diabetes. The researchers also found improvements in the abstainers' liver health, a decrease in cholesterol levels and blood pressure, and even a small decline in weight. Their most surprising result was a dramatic drop in the levels of two factors linked to cancer, which promote tumor growth; one of them dropped by 41 percent, the other by 74 percent. The researchers don't know how long these positive results will last, but their study has proven that staying away from booze can really boost your health. Reap the benefits of DIY lemongrass ice tea Native to Sri Lanka and South India, lemongrass is commonly used in Asian cuisine. It also has various health benefits: It contains compounds that can fight inflammation, its smell can relieve stress, it's thought to prevent infection and it supports your digestion by relieving bloating. On hot summer days, you can make your own lemongrass ice tea. All you need are a few lemongrass stalks, some honey, fresh mint leaves, and a few slices of lemon. Wash the lemongrass stalks and cut them into small pieces. Give them a sniff – smells good, right? Pour 500 milliliters of boiling water over the lemongrass stalks and let them steep for at least 10 minutes. The longer you let them sit, the more intense the lemongrass taste will be. Strain the liquid into a jug, then stir in some honey and add the mint leaves and lemon slices. Keep refrigerated until served. Enjoy your healthy refreshment! Crash diets can help you lose weight quickly, but most of it comprises water and muscle mass. The little fat that is actually broken down will be replenished by the body once you’ve finished dieting – as a reserve for extreme situations. Crash diets also have side-effects such as headaches, nausea and bad breath. For a long-term solution, the only way is to completely reform your eating habits. People determined to keep their weight low after shedding the pounds should have fruit and vegetables dominating their daily intake. Most varieties contain a lot of minerals and vitamins, are largely comprised of water, and have a very low calorie content. You should also drink plenty of water to stimulate digestion. The same applies for spicy food. The worst culprits include not only fat but also refined carbohydrates such as processed flour products, instant meals, and all foods with a high level of regular supermarket sugar or fructose – not forgetting sweet drinks and fast food. Plus: avoid alcohol, because it has twice as many calories as protein or sugar. There are various steps of action that will help your dieting … Eat three regular meals a day, with breakfast optionally the biggest. The slower you eat, the faster you will feel sated. Stop eating well before you are 100% full. And use smaller plates, as this gives you the feeling of having eaten enough. Regular physical exercise is crucial for losing weight. Sporting activity increases our energy consumption and burns off fat. Power walking or aqua aerobics are sound options to start off with, as they take the load off your spine and joints. Later you can move on to endurance sports such as running, cycling and swimming – in 30-minute sessions at least three times a week. Sleeping badly will leave you hungrier the next day. Getting insufficient rest leads to a hormone malfunction that causes sudden cravings, while your metabolism rate plummets because you’re eating more. Your leptin level that triggers that full feeling decreases, while the appetite-producing hormones ghrelin and orexin increase. Losing weight therefore means sleeping enough as well. Cold baths stimulate fat combustion, and help you lose weight. In particular, cold water boosts our metabolism by activating the brown fat on the thighs, hips and behind. The water temperature should begin at 20° Celsius and drop to 15° C (but no lower) by the end. Taking a cold bath for 15 minutes a day will give you a turbocharged metabolism all day long. Muscle mass makes up around 40% of your body weight, and even without activity burns up three times more calories than fat tissue. Muscles consume calories day and night, and are a major fat killer. Trained muscles are far more efficient fat combustion engines than untrained ones. The more muscle mass, the higher the burning of energy and fat! Stress is among the most significant mental factors promoting excess weight. Relieving stress is therefore helpful. Stress hormones play a big role in our hunger and eating behavior, and can lead to uncontrolled cravings – even when the body does not in fact need any food. A stress-free life is among the best fat fighters. If you’re feeling peckish when out shopping, you are bound to end up with items in your basket or trolley that have no place on a diet menu. It’s best to do your groceries after eating. With a full stomach you are less likely to succumb to the countless temptations on display.