German-American relations have been undergoing a stress test since US President Donald Trump took office. There now seem to be more differences between the two countries than things they have in common. However, their economic, cultural and historical ties are close enough to survive this presidency, too. The strong German-American friendship was cemented by an event that took place 70 years ago. In the spring of 1948, three years after the end of World War Two, Germany was still in ruins. Millions of people had lost their lives as a result of Adolf Hitler's dream of a thousand-year Nazi Reich and his racist ideology. Those who had survived the war were hoping things would soon begin to improve, but reconstruction efforts were already overshadowed by the start of the Cold War. There was deep mutual mistrust between the Western allies and the Soviet Union, and nowhere were these tensions more apparent than in the divided German capital, Berlin. The western part of the city was governed by the victorious Allied powers, the United States, Britain and France, while the east was under Soviet control. Berlin was divided into sectors administrated by the victorious Allied powers The 2 million or so people in the Western powers' three sectors lived on a sort of island surrounded by the Soviet sphere of influence. Both East Germany, in the midst of which the city lay, and the rest of Eastern Europe were firmly under Moscow's control. Supplies were brought into West Berlin via a railway link, one motorway and a few waterways, all of which passed through communist territory. On June 20, 1948, a trial of strength began between West and East when the Allies decided to introduce a monetary union – the genesis of the deutschmark. Read more: 1945: A youth in ruins Berlin was almost completely reduced to rubble by the end of World War Two The deutschmark sparks a crisis The intention was to stabilize Germany economically by introducing a hard currency. But the Soviet Union refused to accept the move, fearing that the introduction of the new currency would cement West Berlin's special status as an Allied bridgehead in the heart of its territory. "This led to a rift between the three Western occupying powers and the Soviet side," Bernd von Kostka of the Allied Museum in Berlin explained to DW. "Monetary union made it impossible to agree a common policy for Germany." On the night of June 23, the Soviets blockaded all access to the west of the city. Soon the lights went out. Seventy-five percent of West Berlin's electricity came from the surrounding region. The Eastern Bloc's plan was to grind the people down in order to force the Allies out of the divided city. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/303cJ West Berlin as an outpost of freedom But the Allies stood their ground – even though the city at stake here was the capital of their former enemy, only recently defeated, who had inflicted death and destruction on large parts of the world. The US saw West Berlin as a bulwark against communism that had to be defended. Because the Allies had not signed any agreement with the Soviet Union about use of the land access routes, they had no legal grounds on which to fight the blockade. A military option was never seriously considered because of the high risks involved. What the Western powers did have was three guaranteed air corridors. US President Harry S. Truman and the other Allies agreed on a spectacular rescue operation: supplying the city entirely from the air. The plan to implement this massive airlift "was given conditional support. And because there were no alternatives, this provisional airlift – this idea of supplying an unimaginable 2 million people from the air – began," says Bernd von Kostka from the Allied Museum. A memorial commemorates the blockade, which ended in May 1949 after almost a year Supply planes cleared for takeoff On June 28, the first US Air Force planes set off from Frankfurt and Wiesbaden for Tempelhof Airport in Berlin. The French, who had suffered the direct consequences of German occupation, took a bit longer before agreeing to support the operation. Soon transporter planes were flying around the clock, taking off and landing at 90-second intervals at Tempelhof Airport in the US sector, Gatow in the British sector, and from December 1948 on at the new French-built airport, Tegel. Tempelhof was one airport used as a base for airlift flights Every day the encircled western sector of Berlin needed an average of at least 5,000 to 6,000 tons of food supplies and coal. The biggest sortie was on April 15 and 16, 1949. In the space of just 24 hours, 1,400 flights delivered around 13,000 tons of freight. The airlift pilots flew around the clock, often exhausted and risking their lives to fly into the city regardless of the weather. Some of the planes crashed. Dubbed "candy bombers" by Berliners, the propeller planes flew so low over the city as they came in to land that the crew and the populace were able to wave to one another. Pilots used to throw down chocolate and chewing gum for the city's children, attached to homemade parachutes. Read more: The hero of the Berlin Airlift Gail Halvorsen, seen here in 2016 in front of a Frankfurt memorial, had the idea of dropping candy Extreme deprivation In addition to the Allies' logistical efforts, the isolated inhabitants' determination to hold out was key to the success of the operation. On the multimedia page of the project "Memory of the Nation [Gedächtnis der Nation]," Walther Hofer describes the situation in winter, when each household had only one hour's electricity per day "because the coal for the electricity plants had to be flown in." Heating homes was out of the question. On September 9, Ernst Reuter (SPD), the later mayor of West Berlin, gave a historic speech in which he appealed to the Western powers not to forsake Berlin. Against the backdrop of the ruined Reichstag building, Reuter shouted into the microphones: "People of the world, people in America, in England, in France, in Italy: Look at this city and see that you should not, you cannot abandon this city and this people!" Reuter's speech has become famous Extraordinary logistical feat Every day of the airlift increased international sympathy for the Western powers, whereas the Soviets plummeted in the public's esteem. Finally, the Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin realized that this was a power game he was not going to win. On May 12, 1949, he ended the blockade following secret negotiations with the US. In those 318 days, the Allies had flown more than 277,000 flights to West Berlin, bringing in more than 2.3 million tons of supplies. It was only a small step from the airlift to trans-Atlantic friendship with the United States. Bernd von Kostka hopes that Trump's foreign policy will not do lasting damage to this solidarity. He also sees the airlift as a model for how international cooperation can help in today's crisis and conflict zones – in Syria, for example. "We have seen that it's perfectly possible to supply people from the air. And with the transport capacity of modern freight planes, it would be possible to bring the amount supplied during the airlift to any city in the world in a fraction of the number of flights." Visible from afar, an American C-47 floats in front of the façade of the Deutsches Technikmuseum in Kreuzberg. It has become a symbol for a dramatic chapter of Berlin's history and an unprecedented aid campaign: for 14 months, West Berlin was supplied from the air by the Western Allies after the Soviets had erected the Berlin blockade in June 1948. After the Second World War, the four victorious powers divided Germany into occupation zones. Berlin, which lay like an island in the Soviet zone, was also divided into four parts. On June 24, 1948, the Soviets blocked all land and water routes to West Germany, and the power supply was also cut off. The Western Allies responded immediately. US military governor Lucius D. Clay gave the order to create the Berlin Airlift on June 25, 1948. One day later, the first transporter landed at Tempelhof. The airport in the American sector became the most important hub of the airlift. Today there are guided tours through the disused airport, which became a legend during the Berlin blockade. For 14 months, 2.2 million West Berliners were supplied from the air. The Allies developed a sophisticated system: three air corridors functioned as one-way streets, two for outward and one for return flights. Close to each other, up to five airplanes had room one above the other! Within 14 months, the airport welcomed a total of 278,000 landings and 2.3 million tons of freight. The second most important airport during the Berlin blockade was in Gatow, in the British sector. The British handled 42 percent of the Airlift landings here: Liquid fuel and supplies for the West Berliners were flown in, sick people and children were flown out. Today, the hangars contain an exhibition on military aviation in Germany. Most tourists to Berlin today arrive in the German capital via Tegel Airport. Most don't know that this airport is also closely connected to the Airlift. Tegel was given its present shape with the hexagonal main terminal in the 1970s, but the foundation stone was laid in 1948. Tegel Airport was the French contribution to the Airlift. In the autumn of 1948, the French Allies built what was then the longest runway in Europe, covering 2.5 km (1.5 miles), in just three months. They were supported by 19,000 Berliners, half of them women. Berlin's third airlift airport went into operation on November 5, 1948. The Berliners simply called the Allied transport aircraft "raisin bombers" or "candy bombers." Before landing, the US pilots dropped small aid packages on homemade parachutes to make the waiting children happy. The packages usually contained chocolate, chewing gum and sometimes raisins. Visitors to the Allied Museum in the Dahlem district, which belonged to the American sector, learn a lot about the history of the airlift and life in Berlin during the Cold War. The exhibition also shows how former enemies, after initial mistrust, became allies during the airlift. Canned food, dried fruit, milk powder, and coffee: Today the care packages are on display in the museum. At the time, they were a lifesaver for many Berliners. Private US aid organization Care chartered its own planes, which brought up to 1,000 care packages to the city every day. The contents, worth $15 (13 euro), fed a family for a month. Even the first trees for the reforestation of the Tiergarten park and zoo were flown in via the airlift. After the winter of 1948, the park in the city center was almost bare, as the Berliners had processed the trees into firewood. On March 17, 1949 the reforestation began. "...look upon this city!" In his speech in front of the destroyed Reichstag parliament building on September 9, 1948, Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter called on the world not to surrender the city to the Soviet Union. At the same time, he pleaded with the people of Berlin to persevere. On May 12, 1949, after 322 days, the Soviets abandoned the blockade of West Berlin. 78 pilots crashed during the airlift. This monument near the former Tempelhof Airport commemorates them since 1951. Officially called the Airlift Monument, Berliners have nicknamed it the "Hunger Claw." The three pillars actually symbolize the three air corridors. Copies of the monument are in Frankfurt am Main and Celle, which are the West German cities from which the planes took off for Berlin. As a symbol of democracy and freedom as well as an anti-Communist gesture, the Americans gave West Berlin the Freedom Bell, which in turn was inspired by the US Liberty Bell. On October 24, 1950, the "Father of the Airlift," General Lucius D. Clay, was the first to consecrate it by ringing the bell. To this day, it rings every day at 12 o'clock and commemorates the end of the Berlin blockade. Author: Frederike Müller 