German Chancellor Angela Merkel's government threatened Thursday to begin coming apart at the seams. While her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) stands behind her, her Bavarian allies, the Christian Social Union (CSU), have lined up behind Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, defying the chancellor's preferred migration policy and, in doing so, challenging her authority. DW looks at how the German press reacted to the latest spat inside the chancellery. Read more: Opinion: Asylum row could bring down Angela Merkel's government Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zXs0 The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ): Merkel's European solution will never materialize The CSU is not even willing to give Merkel another fortnight to try and forge a European solution to the migration issue, FAZ wrote. They're not being completely unreasonable. There's little use in waiting for a European solution, given the political turmoil several other EU states currently find themselves in, according to FAZ columnist Berthold Kohler. The Bavarians fear the federal government's migration policy could see them lose their majority in the state parliament in October's state elections. According to Kohler, the CSU is also convinced the public is having second thoughts over how to handle the influx of refugees, given recent revelations about the BAMF (Germany's migration office) and the murder last month of a German teenager, allegedly by an Iraqi asylum seeker. Süddeutsche Zeitung (SZ): The CSU's hard line isn't worth it The Munich-based SZ wrote that the CSU has "artificially" raised the migration issue in a bid to catch up with Germany's rising anti-migrant mood. This, however, is a risk not worth taking, the paper added. Not only could it bring down the federal government; it is also bad for Bavaria, according to SZ's Heribert Prantl. Closing the state's external borders and introducing strict controls would seal Germany off from several key trading partners, namely Austria, Italy and nations in eastern Europe, greatly damaging the country's economy in the process. According to Prantl, refugees should be checked and, if necessary, deported from inside the country rather than at the border. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qXLf Die Welt: CDU members backing Seehofer have plenty to lose The reason why the CSU suddenly wants to close the border is simple: It feels the far-right Alternative for Germany is pulling voters away, damaging the CSU's core in Bavaria, according to Die Welt's Torsten Krauel. The CSU wants a swift response, but Merkel insists that any hasty action would risk destabilizing Europe. For Merkel and Seehofer, it's a question of "my notion of stability against yours." Weigh up the arguments and see who prevails, the paper writes. The hard-liners inside Merkel's CDU  who are siding with Seehofer are putting their careers on the line. Party members who sided against Merkel in the past have found themselves isolated from the chancellor's inner circle, Krauel writes. Read more:  CSU labels far-right AfD 'un-Bavarian' as heated state election campaign starts early Bild: The choice rests with lawmakers — go with Merkel or face fresh elections While Merkel on Wednesday called immigration a "litmus test for the future of Europe," Germany's best-selling tabloid Bild turned the chancellor's words on their head, saying the issue was quickly becoming a test for her own grip on power. Should Merkel and Seehofer fail to reach a solution, Merkel must then face a vote of confidence, the paper wrote. "Every lawmaker must decide … Keep going with Merkel's way or face the adventure of fresh elections," opined Bild columnist Nikolaus Blome Frankfurter Rundschau (FR): Won't somebody please think of the SPD?! Even if the CDU and CSU find a compromise on the refugee issue, it will likely be hard to swallow for Merkel's other junior coalition partner, the Social Democrats (SPD), according to FR's Steven Geyer. The party has been helped by the chancellor's liberal migration policy, but those days could soon be over. "The attacks from the CSU's brass on Thursday were tantamount to an open vote of no confidence," wrote Geyer. And even if Merkel comes out of this crisis intact, she knows that her position within her own party is now too weak to take any more major political risks. According to Geyer, from this day forward, Merkel will be an altogether different kind of chancellor. On April 20, 2018, a number of employees at the regional BAMF office in Bremen were accused of having illegally accepted hundreds of asylum applicants between 2013 and 2017, mainly from Iraq's Yazidi community. Bremen public prosecutors announced that six people, including the former director of the Bremen BAMF office, were under investigation for alleged corruption in about 1,200 cases. Steffen Seibert, spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, reacted swiftly to the allegations, saying it would be wrong to speculate on what consequences the incident could have for the BAMF immigration offices. He said that the "extremely serious allegations" would first have to be resolved. The BAMF scandal could be a major embarrassment to Chancellor Merkel's open-door policy to refugees. A few weeks into the scandal, German media reported that 13 further regional BAMF branches were going to be subject to checks regarding their approval of asylum applications. The branches had apparently come under scrutiny for showing noticeable differences in the number of asylum applications accepted or rejected in comparison to other offices. Some 8,000 applications will have to be re-checked. A month into the scandal, details emerged that BAMF had been informed about the possible improprieties in Bremen earlier than thought, German news magazine Der Spiegel reported. The irregularities were reportedly flagged back in February 2017. In the light of the growing scandal, BAMF head Jutta Cordt announced that some 18,000 asylum decisions made in Bremen since 2000 now had to be re-checked. German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer meanwhile confirmed that he would testify before a special meeting of the Bundestag internal affairs committee to be convened at the request of the Green Party. The committee hopes to avoid a full-blown parliamentary investigation, which two other opposition parties — the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) and the center-right FDP — are calling for. This might be the man who would have to answer some serious questions if a comprehensive parliamentary inquiry should be launched. Thomas de Maiziere was Germany's interior minister until the beginning of the year, overseeing the management of asylum application at the height of the refugee crisis. De Maiziere, an ally of Merkel's, criticized the shortcomings of the assessment system in the past. On May 23, the German Interior Ministry prohibited the regional BAMF office in Bremen from deciding whether individual refugees will be given asylum in the country. Seehofer said an internal BAMF report had shown that "legal regulations and internal policies" had been "disregarded" at the center. The city of Bremen has said Germany's Federal Criminal Police are now part of the inquiry into the wide-ranging corruption. The decision came after a crisis meeting on the scandal surrounding the city's asylum procedure for refugees. Author: Sertan Sanderson 