European Union retaliatory tariffs on US goods came into force on Friday, in response to US tariffs on steel and aluminum.  The EU said it has no choice after failing to secure an exemption to US President Donald Trump's tariffs, but the response has raised fears of a global trade war. Read more: Donald Trump's trade spats with Europe, China and NAFTA ― What you need to know What the EU is targeting The tariffs target $3.4 billion (€2.9 billion) worth of American imports including: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zx0p Symbolic political impact European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said on Thursday the US tariff decision "goes against all logic and history." "Our response must be clear but measured. We will do what we have to do to rebalance and safeguard." European Commission Vice President for Trade Jyrki Katainen said: "If we chose products like Harley Davidson, peanut butter and bourbon, it's because there are alternatives on the market. We don't want to do anything that would harm consumers. What's more, these products will have a strong symbolic political impact." EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom said: "We are always open to talk with the US. The whole EU is based on the idea that we talk." She described the tariffs as "illegal" as they contravened World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. "We have a trade war — and it's an escalating trade war," SEB chief economist Robert Bergqvist told AFP news agency. "All these kind of things going on right now could trigger that kind of behavior and initiate a correction in the stock markets, and that could also trigger a slowdown in the global economy." Read more: EU firms worried about China's tough business environment, trade tensions The European Union is the US' largest export market, accounting for about one-fifth of all US exports. Similarly, one-fifth of EU exports go to the United States. EU-US trade in goods and services was €1,069.3 billion in 2017. The EU imported €256.2 billion in goods from the US, and exported €375.8 billion. The main exports and imports between the EU and US fall into the categories of machinery and vehicles, chemicals and other manufactured goods. Combined, they accounted for 89 percent of EU exports and imports with the US in 2017. In all three categories, as well as food and drink, the EU had a trade surplus. The US had a trade surplus in raw materials and energy. At €167 billion, machinery and vehicles were the largest EU export category to the US, accounting for 44.4 percent of goods exports. The €111.5 billion in machinery and transport equipment was the largest EU import from the US, accounting for 43.6 percent of imports. At the end of May, the Trump administration imposed a 25 percent tariff on EU steel and 10 percent tariff on aluminum. Steel and aluminum exports to the United States were worth €3.58 billion in 2017. In response, the European Union has developed a list of products it may subject to retaliatory tariffs. These include typical American products like peanut butter, bourbon whiskey, Harley Davidson motorcycles, jeans and orange juice. The exports targeted by the EU are worth about €2.8 billion annually, according to EU officials. For services, the EU imports amounted to €219.3 billion and exports €218 billion. The top services were in professional and management services, intellectual property, travel and education. About a third of EU-US trade consists of intra-company transfers. Author: Chase Winter Opening salvo of trade war: The tariffs will likely do little to quell Trump's aggressive policies on trade as he attempts to reduce perceived imbalances. Trump has already said he is considering tariffs on cars, which would place hefty economic pressure on EU-stalwart Germany. Why these goods? The goods represent an almost caricatured depiction of the United States, but they are also targeted to inflict maximum political pain in regions of the US that voted for Trump as well as lighting a fire under the Democrats who have so far been unable to reign in the Republican trade moves. The other fronts: The EU is just one bloc retaliating to US trade aggression. In two weeks, the US will impose tariffs on $34 billion of Chinese goods and Beijing has vowed reciprocal tariffs on soybeans and other farm products. India and Turkey have already targeted US products ranging from rice to autos to sunscreen. aw/sms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)