The Canadian government spoke out on Friday against Nicaragua's crackdown on protesters in the cities of Managua and Masaya, calling a lack of justice and accountability for the crimes that have been committed unacceptable. "We condemn the killings of unarmed protesters by state security forces and paramilitary groups and the crackdowns in Managua and Masaya," Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement. "The civilian population is being intimidated on a daily basis by these forces," Freeland said. "The clear absence of justice and accountability for their crimes is unacceptable. The perpetrators of these actions must be held accountable." The Canadian government said the conflict in Nicaragua has had a "devastating impact" on its citizens, but that it also is "posing serious risks to the security of the region." Read more: Will Nicaragua be the next Venezuela? OAS group confirms death toll The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) gathered on Friday at the Organization of American States (OAS) headquarters in Washington, DC, to release its report on the crisis. The IACH confirmed what Nicaraguan human rights advocates said this week, that the death toll during two months of anti-government unrest has risen to 212 with more than 1,300 people wounded and that President Daniel Ortega's government was responsible for the violence. "Nicaragua has not fulfilled its international obligations to respect, protect and guarantee human rights in the context of the social protests that began on April 18," the regional human rights organization said in its report, which was based on a visit to the Central American country this week. Read more: Nicaragua's student protest leaders determined to win back democracy The 97-page document found that the state response to mass demonstrations has been characterized by repression and criminalization of protesters and the social movement they represent. This has resulted "in serious violations of human rights," the IACHR said. "State violence has been aimed at discouraging participation in demonstrations and quelling this expression of political dissent," the IACHR concluded and called on Nicaragua's government to "reach a constitutional, democratic and peaceful solution to this human rights crisis." The statement was rejected by Nicaraguan ambassador to the OAS, Denis Moncada, who said that the findings of the IACHR were "subjective, prejudiced and notably biased." Nicaragua was supported in the OAS meeting by the Venezuelan and Bolivian delegations. "The same tactics that have been used to destabilize Venezuela are being used right now on Nicaragua," said Venezuelan Ambassador Carmen Velazquez. Embattled President Daniel Ortega has been a fixed presence in Nicaraguan politics for decades. Following the fall of longtime dictator Anastasio Somoza, Ortega became president in 1985, heading the leftist Sandinista National Liberation Front. With deep ties to Fidel Castro, he faced US opposition. The Reagan Administration supported a right-wing guerrilla movement aimed at bringing him down. After losing re-election in 1990, Ortega became a major opposition figure. Ortega finally won the presidency in 2006, riding the wave of leftist presidents in Latin America. He became a close friend and ally of Hugo Chavez. He has since changed tack, allying himself with the country's traditionally right-wing business community and clergy. Coupled with changes in electoral law, Ortega has prolonged and cemented his rule. In 2016, he barred international observers and nominated his wife as Vice-president. The pair won the election, which was condemned by the opposition and criticized internationally by the US, OAS and the EU. In April 2018, Ortega announced a move to reform Nicaragua's pension system, saying that fiscal changes were needed. The reform sought to impose a 5 percent tax on retiree and disability pensions while increasing social security contributions by up to 22.5 percent. The move unleashed large-scale protests nationwide, which have been the biggest challenge Ortega has faced during modern tenure. The pension plan was abandoned but protests continued, demanding Ortega's ouster. UN Human Rights experts denounced the state's harsh repression. As the death toll rose, Nicaragua's Catholic Church has demanded that Ortega allow international organizations entry to Nicaragua to help investigate the deaths and tried to set up talks between the opposition and the government. The opposition, comprised of students and a wide range of civil society groups, sat down with the government fora round of talks on May 16. The Clergy said the talks would be focused on "justice, democratization, and peace." The opposition's main demand: new presidential elections in 2019. The government rejected the demands and talks broke down. The death toll in two months of nationwide violence has risen to 186. Two rounds of dialogue have failed, with unabated protests and repression. Ortega demands that protesters bring down their street barricades. But the opposition continues to demand that the government call for new elections and let in the UN and EU into Nicaragua. Ortega has not yet agreed to either demand. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez Bishops reach agreement with Masaya police Repression had ramped up this week after a dialogue between the opposition and the government broke down on Monday. Right away, clashes reignited between protesters and police in the city of Masaya, which declared itself in "rebellion" against the government. On Thursday, the Nicaraguan clergy announced they were traveling to the city to "prevent a massacre" and provide support to its citizens. By Friday, the clergy, along with Nicaragua's main human rights organization, managed to reach an agreement with police forces in Masaya to cease violence. Police commissioner Ramon Avellan is set to have pledged to "suspend all harassment," Cardinal Leopoldo Brenes confirmed. "Let's see if it's really true," he added. The Nicaraguan Association of Human Rights says that 21 people have died in Masaya's standoff against police and pro-government mobs. jcg/sms (EFE, dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.