+++Refresh the page for live updates (all times CEST)+++ 43' Giroud has only had 15 touches all half. One less than goalkeeper Steve Mandanda. 42' Giroud fires over after Kante lays off, but it's over. It's been that kind of half. 39' Griezmann tries his luck from the edge of the box, but his shot is way too high. 35' Denmark looking decent at the moment. It may not be pretty, but they're stopping the supply line to Giroud or Griezmann. 33' France dominating possession, as they have in their previous two games, but doing little with it. Meanwhile, Denmark are not getting Eriksen into the game. They will need to do that if they want to get a result here. Eriksen almost latches on to a throughball but Hernandez and Mandanda combine to deny the Dane. 30' Chance for Denmark as Eriksen goes clean through, but he never really has control of the ball and Hernandez makes an important challenge. Eriksen asking for a penalty, but that's optimistic. 27' Lemar whips in a free-kick from the left but Kjaer ensures it goes out for a corner.  France should consider putting Dembele on free-kick duty. 24' Lemar is starting to see more of the ball for France, and when he does they look like a threat. But generally, France look disjointed. But they have made seven changes. 21' That means Australia need to find two goals from somewhere, and hope France dispose of Denamrk. Neither of which looks particularly likely at the moment. 18' GOAL! Australia 0-1 Peru — Peru lead in Sochi! Guerrero keeps the ball in and crosses for Carrillo, whose sweet volley from the edge of the box flies past Ryan in the Australia goal. There was no stopping that, what a strike! 17' France feeling their way into this one and enjoying their first sustained period possession. 15' Lucas Hernandez is brought down in the box and the ball falls to Olivier Giroud, whose shot deflects just wide. 10' Braithwaite has been Denmark's liveliest player so far. France's second string defense struggling to get to grips with him. 7' Griezmann gets into a good position on the right but his cross is dealt with by Schmeichel. 5' Replay show that Briathwaite didn't have much of a case for penalty. 3' A strong start by Denmark as Braithwaite takes the ball past two France defenders and then goes to ground. He's claiming a penalty. Can Christian Eriksen lead Denmark into the last 16? 1' KICK OFF! We're underway. 15.55 Will Denmark or Australia join France in the last 16? We're about to find out. 15.50 Here are the teams... 15:45 Hello everyone, welcome to live coverage of Denmark vs. France as Group C is wrapped up. We'll also give you goalflashes and major incidents from the other game in this group, Australia vs. Peru.