After an inspection of facilities and infrastructure ahead of the 2026 World Cup, global soccer body FIFA gave the three-nation bid by the United States, Canada and Mexico four out of a maximum five points on Friday. Rival Morocco, meanwhile, received 2.7 points and high-risk warnings for its stadium, accommodation and transport proposals. A minimum of two points was needed to qualify. "The amount of new infrastructure required for the Morocco 2026 bid to become reality cannot be overstated," the bid evaluation task force said. "The Morocco 2026 bid and United 2026 bid represent two almost opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to the nature of their bids." The FIFA Council must approve both candidates at a June 10 meeting in Moscow before a FIFA Congress of 207 member federations votes on June 13 to decide on the winning bid. North Africa versus Americas While Morocco has highlighted the North African country's passion for football, its compact size and proximity to Europe, it is up against a bid from the three American countries with the stadiums, transport and tourism facilities needed to host the expanded competition which will host 48 teams playing 80 games. According to the FIFA evaluation report for Morocco, "only two of the 14 proposed stadiums would have sufficient levels of general accommodation to meet the minimum requirements." The report pointed out that Morocco needs to spend $16 billion (€13.7 billion) on infrastructure, including buildings or renovations for its 14 stadiums. No tournament-specific building work is necessary in the Americas' bid, which forecast a tournament revenue of $14.3 billion, "significantly higher" than Morocco's $7.2 billion. In April, US President Donald Trump added his support to the US-Canada-Mexico bid and warned against opposition. "It would be a shame if countries that we always support were to lobby against the US bid," he wrote on Twitter. "Why should we be supporting these countries when they don't support us (including at the United Nations)?" The FIFA inspectors also drew attention to human rights and labor standards in Morocco, noting that the country's anti-LGBT law had not been declared to the governing body in the human rights risk assessment. The MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, is one of the proposed US stadiums Past criticism FIFA ordered more rigorous inspections after criticism of the 2018 and 2022 World Cup selection process in 2010, when Russia and Qatar won in a corruption-tainted vote, despite being judged as the riskiest options by a task force. Morocco previously bid for the World Cup in 1994, 1998, 2006 and 2010, without success. The United States previously hosted the tournament in 1994, while Mexico hosted in 1970 and 1986. The main stadium, which is home to the Russian national team, has a capacity of 81,000. It will be the venue for both the opening match and the World Cup final, as well as one of the semifinals. The stadium, which has been renovated for the World Cup, has previously hosted a Champions League final and the Summer Olympic Games. The Yekateringburg Arena, which was built in 1953 has been refurbished for the 2018 World Cup. The stadium, with a capacity of 35,000, is the home of FC Ural of the Russian first division. Yekaterinburg is the furthest east of the host cities. The new home of Zenit St. Petersburg holds 68,000 spectators. It is the venue for one of the semifinals and the third-place match. It will also host a game in the last 16 as well as group stage matches, including one of Russia's clashes. Saint Petersburg Stadium was also a venue for the 2017 Confederations Cup. This 44,000 capacity stadium was built for the World Cup on an island south of Samara where no settlements or infrastructure previously existed. This is where hosts Russia will play their final group-stage match. A last-16 match and a quarterfinal will also be played in the stadium, which is to become the home of Krylya Sovetov, currently in the Russian second division, after the tournament. This venue was built on the site of the old Central Stadium in Volgograd near the Volga river. It can hold over 45,000 spectators and will only be used for the group stage. After the World Cup, it will become the home of Rotor Volgograd, a club currently playing in Russia's second division. Volgograd used to be known as Stalingrad. German architect Tim Hupe designed this brand new bowl stadium for the World Cup. The stadium has a capacity of 44,000 and will only host matches in the group stage. After the tournament, the upper seating will be dismantled and the stadium will be handed over to third-tier Russian side Mordovia Saransk. Rostov Arena, with a capacity of 45,000 is one of the new stadiums built specifically for the World Cup. The stadium will host four group-stage games and one match in the last 16. It will become the new home of FC Rostov after next summer's tournament. This 45,000 capacity stadium was built specifically for the World Cup. It will host four group-stage games as well as a round-of-16 match and a quarterfinal. After the tournament, it is expected to become the home ground of Olimpiyets Nizhny Novgorod of the Russian second division, although in March 2017, then-regional governor Valery Shantsev said it would also be used for other sporting events. This is the only World Cup venue in an exclave of Russia — Kaliningrad is a territory between Poland and Lithuania. The 35,000-capacity stadium was built specifically for the World Cup and will be downsized after the tournament. It is only a venue for the group stage and will become the new home of Baltika Kaliningrad, a club in Russia's second division. Though it was used for the Confederations Cup, the Spartak Stadium, with a capacity of 45,000, will only be used for four group-stage games and one first knockout-stage game. The arena was re-opened in 2014 and is the home of Spartak Moscow, Russia's most successful football club. A venue for the Confederations Cup, Kazan Arena will be used for a last 16 game, a quarterfinal and four group stage games. The capacity of the stadium is 41,585. Vladimir Putin laid the cornerstone for the stadium before it opened in 2013. It is the home ground of Rubin Kazan. This 41,220-capacity stadium was constructed for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games. A large section of the roof has been removed to accommodate football. A last 16 match and a quarterfinal will be played here as well as four group games. Author: Davis VanOpdorp jm/cmk (Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.