The "Saber Strike" exercise, which involves Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and 17 additional participating Allied and partner militaries, got underway on Sunday. It is "a clear demonstration of the commitment and solidarity of the Alliance," according to the US Army Europe. "Saber Strike 18 is not a provocation of Russia but an exercise with our Allies." The massive drills got underway just days after it emerged that Poland is willing to spend as much as 1.7 billion euros ($2 billion) to cover the costs of a US base in the face of perceived Russian aggression. "Yes, we are interested in the presence of American forces in our country and we have submitted — including to think tanks — some options that we could offer if such decisions were adopted," said Pawel Soloch, head of the office of national security at the Polish presidency. The proposal triggered a response from Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov. "In general, when we record gradual expansion of NATO military structure towards our borders, when NATO infrastructure directly approaches our borders, this certainly does not contribute to security and stability on the continent in any way," Peskov said. West Germany officially joined the trans-Atlantic alliance in 1955. However, it wasn't until after reunification in 1990 that the German government considered "out of area" missions led by NATO. From peacekeeping to deterrence, Germany's Bundeswehr has since been deployed in several countries across the globe in defense of its allies. In 1995, Germany participated in its first "out of area" NATO mission as part of a UN-mandated peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the deployment, German soldiers joined other NATO member forces to provide security in the wake of the Bosnian War. The peacekeeping mission included more than 60,000 troops from NATO's member states and partners. Since the beginning of the NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, some 8,500 German soldiers have been deployed in the young country. In 1999, NATO launched an air assault against Serbian forces accused of carrying out a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanian separatists and their civilian supporters. Approximately 550 Bundeswehr troops are still stationed in Kosovo. In 2016, Germany deployed its combat support ship "Bonn" to lead a NATO mission backed by the EU in the Aegean Sea. The mission included conducting "reconnaissance, monitoring and surveillance of illegal crossings" in Greek and Turkish territorial waters at the height of the migration crisis. Germany, Greece and Turkey had requested assistance from the trans-Atlantic alliance. In 2003, Germany's parliament voted to send Bundeswehr troops to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Germany became the third-largest contributor of troops and led the Regional Command North. More than 50 German troops were killed during the mission. Nearly a thousand soldiers are still deployed in Afghanistan as part of Resolute Support. Forming part of NATO's "enhanced forward presence" in the Baltic states, 450 Bundeswehr soldiers have been deployed to Lithuania so far in 2017. The battalion-size battlegroups there are led by Germany, Canada, the UK and US to reinforce collective defense on the alliance's eastern flank. It forms the "biggest reinforcement of Alliance collective defence in a generation," according to NATO. The Bundeswehr is due to take over leadership of NATO's multinational Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) at the start of 2019. The rapid reaction force has been set up to counter potential Russian aggression on the alliance's eastern flank. Author: Lewis Sanders IV The United States boosted its presence on the alliance's eastern flank after Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. The US Army set up a new European headquarters in Poland in 2017 to command 6,000 US troops in the region, one of the largest deployments of US forces in Europe since the Cold War. Israel, which a not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), is taking part for the first time in the drills, which are scheduled to run until June 15. Read more: US and Poland strike $10.5 billion missile defense deal Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/rc (AP, AFP)