The most recent attacks were brutal and unexpected. At the beginning of June, a group attacked several villages and spread panic in the middle of the night in the oil and gas-rich Cabo Delgado province in northern Mozambique. Eyewitnesses reported that the attackers burned down houses and massacred residents. "The total amount of houses burned down is 164. In one of the towns the attackers butchered residents with machetes. 20 people died in total," Zenaida Machado of Human Rights Watch told DW in an interview. She recently visited the affected areas in the predominantly Muslim region. Read also: Growing domestic instablity or risk of terrorism in Mozambique? Attacks of this kind have occurred repeatedly in the province over the past months. They started in October 2017, when armed attackers entrenched themselves for three days in the city Mocimboa da Praia. A humanitarian crisis is now looming in the area, Machado says. The attacks seem to be carried out by the same group. It calls itself "Al Shabab", like the radical Islamist terror organization in Somalia. Due to the name, many people assume the group is made up of Islamists from abroad, especially from neighboring Tanzania. Some analysts also believe there are ties to al-Shabab in Somalia, but there is no evidence for this. Mozambican soldiers dismantle a building torched by attackers Little experience with jihadist groups Mozambique has intensified checks on the border with Tanzania. But a complete check on all traffic crossing the border river Romuva is not possible. Following the recent attacks, 40 predominantly young men were detained as they were attempting to travel to Cabo Delgado. According to police reports, the traders were planning to join a jihadist group. However, human rights groups say there is no evidence for such claims. Dhlakama was born in the village of Mangunde, in Mozambique's central Sofala province. He joined the Mozambique Liberation Front (FRELIMO) in 1975, the year Mozambique gained indepedence from Portugal. In 1976 he broke ranks and co-founded RNM (National Resistance of Mozambique) to fight FRELIMO. In the wake of independence, a civil war erupted between the RNM and the fledgling socialist-backed Mozambican government. RNM was armed by white minority regimes in Rhodesia (today Zimbabwe) and South Africa. RNM changed its name to RENAMO. Dhlakama succeeded Andre Matsangaíssa as leader after he dies in combat in 1979. Around one million people were killed and miliions more displaced during the Mozambican civil war (1977 to 1992) . The war ended with the signing of the Rome Peace Accord between Dhlakama and the government in 1992. By then RENAMO had lost a key ally in South Africa, where apartheid was crumbling. The peace deal ended the single party rule and Dhlakama began calling himself "father of democracy". Mozambique had its first multi-party elections in 1994. It was the first of many elections in which RENAMO was defeated and Dhlakama lost the presidential race. Dhlakama claimed victory at the polls in 1999 and blamed vote-rigging for his defeat. After every presidential election that followed he complained about injustice and fraud, to the frustration of RENAMO supporters. The conflict re-ignited in 2013 after Dhlakama returned to his old civil war headquarters in the central Gorongosa region and called for changes to the electoral system and an end to discrimination against RENAMO supporters. FRELIMO rejected his call, Dhlakama revoked the 1992 peace accord and fighting erupted in central Mozambique. During the 20 years of peace between 1992 and 2012, RENAMO kept some armed units that were not integrated into the Mozambican Army or demobilized as stipulated in the Rome Peace Accord. That made a return to war easier for RENAMO. But even again at war, RENAMO maintained its presence in parliament, without participating in local elections which saw the rise of a new opposition party MDM. After several months of low scale armed conflict, the then president Armando Guebuza (left) and Dhlakama signed a cease-fire in 2014. An end to fighting was set as a condition for Dhlakama to run for president in 2014. After his defeat at the polls, Dhlakama retreated to his civil war headquarters and Mozambicans faced another civil war. In September 2015, Dhlakama survived an attack on his convoy in central Manica province. RENAMO considered it an attempted assassination. The international community called for a peaceful solution to the conflict that prompted thousands of Mozambicans to flee to neighboring countries. In October 2015, police raided Dhlakama's home in the RENAMO stronghold of Beira, Mozambique's second-largest city. Local RENAMO leaders found at the house were detained. Dhlakama started direct talks with President Filipe Nyusi, who succeeded Guebuza, to reach a new peace agreement. Without mediators, they have reached a number of consensuses. In February 2018 they agreed to modify the constitution to allow more decentralization. But until Dhlakama's death on 3 May 2018 due to health problems, parliament had not voted for the necessary changes. Dhlakama died at his civil war hideaway in Gorongosa on May 3. Mozambicans attended funeral services on May 9 and 10 at venues in the Sofala province. Dhlakama left his party with the difficult task to complete the peace agreement and to demobilize the armed wing of the party, integrating them into the national army. Author: Nádia Issufo, Johannes Beck For a long time, radical Islamist activities were unknown in Mozambique. Especially in the coastal areas of  Cabo Delgado, members of African ethnic groups such as as the Makonde and the Makuwa have been living together peacefully with Arab, Indian and European immigrants. The investment factor The Mozambican government also seems to have been caught off guard by the recent wave of violence.  In the far-off capital Maputo, the main concern is for the many large-scale projects that have been launched in past years with the help of foreign investors. Large oil and gas deposits, as well as tourism, are supposed to rebalance the budget of the highly indebted country. Big energy producers such as the US company Anadarko or the Italian ENI have invested billions. European, Brazilian, Indian, Japanese, Chinese and Australian companies followed suit and have now announced further investments. This past week, for instance, Anadarko signed an agreement with the Mozambican government on the yearly export of 2,6 million tons of Mozambican liquid gas. 'Not jihadists, but foreign troublemakers' "No foreign investor invests in a region where there is warfare," the Mozambican Minister of Industry and Commerce, Ragendra de Sousa, said in a DW interview. However, that is not the situation in the north, he added. “When groups of criminals attack villages with machetes, that is not guerilla warfare, but unrest brought into the country by foreign troublemakers." Minister of Industry and Commerce, Ragendra de Sousa, is concerned about the effect on foreign investment According to Sousa, while Mozambican security forces are doing all they can to stay on top of the situation, Cabo Delgado’s sheer size and geographical position make it a difficult region to control. The silent president The Mozambican president Filipe Nyusi, who visited Cabo Delgado last week, avoided the topic of the attacks altogether. Even when directly questioned by journalists, he opted to remain silent. This brought criticism that silence cannot be a long term solution. Martin Ewi, an analyst for the South African Institute for Security Studies (ISS), told DW the root of the issue lies in Cabo Delgado’s population feeling disadvantaged and abandoned by their government. He does not believe that the armed attackers are coming from other countries. “The people feel pushed to the edge. The poverty is immense and the politicians are very rich. Many Muslims want to take their region in their own hands," he said. Since the incidents, numerous Western countries have issued security warnings for tourists and business people in northern Mozambique. The German foreign ministry has also advised against any non-essential travel in the province of Cabo Delgado, especially in the districts Palma, Mocimboa, and Macomia, where the most severe attacks took place. The people suffering the most, however, are Mozambique’s civilian population. Eduardo de Almeida, who works as a trader in Pemba, the capital of the province, told DW: “Traders, who obtain their goods from neighboring provinces such as Nampula, are very afraid of the jihadists. They can no longer travel freely through the country and thir business is deteriorating as a result.” Joao Carlos, Chrispin Mwakideu and Benita van Eyssen contributed to this report.