A decision to delay indefinitely the release of the film that delves into LGBT+ issues has sparked criticism in India, according to local media reports. The romantic comedy-drama "Love, Simon" follows the story of 17-year-old Simon Spier, a closeted teenage boy, as he navigates coming out to his friends, family and peers while in high school.  The film was due to be released in India on June 1, but when people tried to book tickets, they found there were no listings, according to online news site Feminism in India. 'Love, Simon' won't be shown in India Read more: Opinion: Same-sex marriage in Germany - a run-of-the-mill revolution Gay Star News reported that the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) banned "Love, Simon" because of the film's gay content. The CBFC's certification guidelines state that "scenes showing sexual perversions shall be avoided and if such matters are germane to the theme they shall be reduced to the minimum and no details are shown." India continues to have laws that criminalize homosexuality. Section 377 of the Penal Code was declared unconstitutional in 2009 but was reinstated by the Supreme Court four years later;it makes homosexual sex punishable by up to 10 years in prison. That section of the penal code was introduced during the British rule of India. Film 'could educate parents' The film has been praised for putting LGBT+ issues front and center, with some critics saying the film is of educational significance. Following the film's release, several celebrities, including Jennifer Garner, Kristen Bell, Neil Patrick Harris and Matt Bomer, booked entire theaters so people could see the film for free. They said they believe that the film conveys an important message. "Love, Simon" premiered at the Mardi Gras Film Festival in February before first being screened in the United States in March. Numerous petitions have been started online calling for the film to be screened in India. One change.org petition, written by Muskan Mundra, reads, "It's been more than 2 months and the LGBT+ community has been patiently waiting for the movie which finally gives the community some representation." "India has lacked a mainstream powerful representation of its LGBT+ citizens for a long time. Although not Bollywood, this film could not only encourage LGBT kids to come out but also educate parents about what it means to be gay, lesbian, bisexual etc. This film could have a tremendous impact on the country's perception of what it means to be a part of the LGBT+ community," the petition said. Outraged "Love, Simon" supporters have taken to Twitter using the hashtag #ReleaseLoveSimoninIndia to air their grievances. The film is not the first with LGBT+ themes to have problems being screened in India. In 2015, the film "Unfreedom," which involves a lesbian relationship, did not receive certification. Last year, Indian filmmaker Jayan Cherian failed to have his film "Ka Bodyscapes" certified. 2018 has seen a glimmer of hope for LGBT+ rights in India, with India's Supreme Court having ordered a re-examination of the 2013 verdict that upheld the criminalization of homosexual relations. The Netherlands was the first country in the world to permit same-sex marriages after the Dutch parliament voted for legalization in 2000. The mayor of Amsterdam, Job Cohen, wedded the first four same-sex couples at midnight on April 1, 2001 when the legislation came into effect. The new law also allowed same-sex couples to adopt children. The Netherlands' neighbor, Belgium, followed the Dutch lead and legalized same-sex marriage two years later. The law gave same-sex partners many of the rights of their heterosexual counterparts. But unlike the Dutch, the Belgians did not initially allow same-sex couples to adopt children. The Belgian parliament passed a bill granting them that right three years later. Argentina became the first Latin American country to legalize same-sex marriages when its Senate voted 33 to 27 in favor of it in July 2010. Argentina thereby became the tenth country in the world to permit gay and lesbian marriages. The South American country was not the only one to do so in 2010. Earlier in the year, Portugal and Iceland also passed same-sex marriage legislation. Denmark's parliament overwhelmingly voted in favor of legalization in June 2012. The small Scandinavian country had made headlines before when it was the first country in the world to recognize civil partnerships for gay and lesbian couples in 1989. Same-sex couples had also enjoyed the right to adopt children since 2009. New Zealand became the 15th country worldwide and the first Asia-Pacific country to allow gay and lesbian marriages in 2013. The first couples were married on August 19. Lynley Bendall (left) and Ally Wanik (right) were among them when they exchanged vows on board an Air New Zealand flight from Queenstown to Auckland. France legalized same-sex marriage the same year. Ireland made headlines in May 2015 when it became the first country in the world to legalize same-sex marriage through a referendum. Thousands of people celebrated in the streets of Dublin as the results came in showing almost two-thirds of voters opting for the measure. The White House was alight in the colors of the rainbow flag on June 26, 2015. Earlier, the US Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 that the constitution guaranteed marriage equality, a verdict that paved the way for same-sex couples to be married across the country. The decision came 12 years after the Supreme Court ruled that laws criminalizing gay sex were unconstitutional. Germany became the fifteenth European country to legalize gay and lesbian marriages in June 30, 2017. The bill passed by 393 to 226 in the Bundestag, with four abstentions. German Chancellor Angela Merkel voted against the bill, but paved the way for its passage when she said her party would be allowed to vote freely on the measure only days before the vote took place. Following a postal survey which showed the majority of Australians were in favor of same-sex marriage, the country's parliament passed a law to legalize it in December 2017. As couples in Australia have to give authorities one month's notice of their nuptials, many of the first weddings took place just after midnight on January 9, 2018 - including that of Craig Burns and Luke Sullivan, pictured. Author: Alexander Pearson