Just two days after the end of a three-day ceasefire between the Afghan government and the Taliban, the militant group attacked police checkpoints in northern Kunduz and Faryab provinces, killing at least 15 members of Afghan security forces. The assaults contradict the Afghan government's claims that peace with jihadists could be a real possibility. The ceasefire, which expired on June 18, had raised hopes that a pause in fighting could finally pave the way for a peaceful resolution to the Afghan conflict. Read more: Second suicide attack disrupts Eid ceasefire in eastern Afghanistan On the last day of the Eid ceasefire, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani offered to extend the truce and once again urged the Taliban to join peace negotiations. Ghani also offered to recognize the Taliban as a political group and discuss amendments to the Afghan constitution to make it happen. Taliban rejected Ghani's both offers . "So long as the Taliban think they are winning the war, and they certainly think they are winning, they won't have any interest in entertaining deals, no matter how generous they may seem," Michael Kugelman, a researcher at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, told DW. The Taliban control or have a formidable presence in vast swathes of Afghan territory. According to US statistics, 14 percent of all Afghan districts are controlled by the Taliban and 30 percent more of such areas are heavily contested by Afghan security forces and the militant group, who was ousted from power by the US in 2001. Read more: Afghanistan peace marchers reach Kabul, 'tired of war' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ziQw Presence of foreign troops While the Taliban say they want to end Afghanistan's almost 17-year-long war, they reiterate that their conditions for peace have not changed. "The Taliban have long demanded that foreign troops either completely pullout from Afghanistan or that they set a date for a withdrawal," Faiz Mohammad Zaland, a lecturer at University of Kabul, told DW. "As long as this demand is not met, the Taliban will continue to launch attacks across Afghanistan," he added. Wahid Muzhdah, a Kabul-based security analyst, told DW it would be difficult for the Afghan government to force NATO troops to leave the country. "It is unlikely that US troops will exit Afghanistan. But the Taliban will not enter peace talks without their withdrawal," he underlined. Also, the withdrawal of international troops from Afghanistan does not guarantee that the Taliban will eventually lay down their weapons. The group, Kugelman believes, may continue its efforts to overthrow the Afghan government, seizing the battlefield advantage created by a possible US absence. "Still, given the urgency of the situation, the US needs to be more flexible and relax its staunch opposition to direct talks with the Taliban," Kugelman added. Read more: Abdullah Abdullah: ‘Nobody promised Afghanistan will be paradise in 2, 3 years’ Hamid Karzai: Former Afghan president hopeful for 'permanent peace' with Taliban Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams A complex picture Another major hurdle to peace talks is that the Afghan government and Washington are unclear about with whom to talk within the Taliban. While the ceasefire presented a unified picture of the Islamists, in reality it is a divided outfit with different splinter groups that have their own goals and objectives. Some Taliban fighters have already joined the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) jihadist group that is consolidating its presence in Afghanistan. Some have established a separate anti-Pakistan front. The main Taliban group in Afghanistan is still believed to be close to Pakistan. Kabul and Washington claim Islamabad is using this group as a proxy to minimize India's increasing influence in the war-torn country. Read more: Is the US bypassing Pakistan for new Taliban strategy? The Taliban, on the other hand, are not willing to talk to Kabul and stress they will only negotiate with the US. In a statement marking the end of their ceasefire on Sunday, the Taliban called on "the invading American party" to "sit directly for dialogue with the Islamic Emirate to find a solution for the ongoing imbroglio." But the US and its NATO partners have made it clear that any Afghan peace talks should be Afghan-led and Afghan-owned. "All this adds to the complexity of the situation," Muzhdah said. Read more: Who is Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zJDk Ceasefire winners The real winners of the Eid ceasefire were Afghan civilians who could finally celebrate holidays without fear of attacks from the Taliban. The Afghan government, too, benefited from the brief truce as it showed its determination for peace to both the international community and the Taliban. During the ceasefire, Afghan officials, including the country's interior minister, posed for pictures with the Taliban in an attempt to show that the Taliban will be welcomed to Afghanistan's power structure if they agree to a deal with the government. "A period of calm benefits Kabul as it gives the government more space and support to push forward the reconciliation process. It may also force the Taliban leadership to realize that many of its fighters are tired of war," Kugelman said. The Taliban, on the other hand, used the truce to present themselves as a united force. "The Taliban proved that they function as a group. They succeeded in that," Zaland said. Read more: Insecurity, fraud undermine upcoming Afghan elections Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2zVZd