Jens Stoltenberg told DW that he is concerned about Russia's new military capabilities. In an exclusive interview scheduled to air next week, the NATO chief said that Moscow is investing heavily in modern equipment — both conventional and nuclear. He said that Russia has been willing to use military force against neighbors, citing the current conflict in Ukraine, and historic warfare in Georgia. "Moscow also has troops in Moldova without the consent of the government in Moldova," Stoltenberg said, pointing to "a pattern developed over years which needs a response." "We're not mirroring what Russia is doing," Stoltenberg told DW. "We're not responding tank for tank, or missile for missile, or nuclear weapon for nuclear weapon. But of course we need to make sure that NATO adapts when we see a more assertive Russia investing heavily in new modern equipment." Read more:  NATO war games: 18,000 troops in eastern flank maneuvers NATO has already deployed four multinational battalions to Poland and the Baltic states  'Difficult relationship' Stoltenberg was keen to point out that he wants to improve NATO's relationship with Russia, to reduce tensions. "We don't want a new Cold War," he said. "We don't want a new arms race and we don't want to isolate Russia." As a neighbor Russia is there to stay, Stoltenberg said. "So for NATO, this is about the balance, combining what we call defense and dialogue. We don't want to choose between defense or dialogue, but we believe that as long as we are strong, as long as we have credible deterrence, as we have, then we can also engage in political dialogue with Russia." NATO and Moscow have accused each other of "risky deployments" in the Baltic States and Eastern Europe. In April, Russia tested missiles with live munitions in the Baltic Sea, alarming Latvia and neutral Sweden. Poland is seeking to have a permanent US military base in its borders Balkan tensions Stoltenberg said that NATO's response to Russia's assertiveness is to implement "the biggest reinforcement of the alliance's collective defense." Indeed, last year, NATO deployed four multinational battalions to Poland and the Baltic states, while the US military sent a Patriot battery to Lithuania for drills. The leaders of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania — occupied and annexed by the Soviet Union during World War II — are seeking extra US aid to ward off any Russian moves against them. Earlier this month, Poland said it is willing to contribute $2 billion (€863,000) for a permanent US military base, according to an official document. Stoltenberg told DW that deploying troops to the eastern part of the alliance, to the Baltic countries, to Poland, sends a clear message to any potential adversaries that NATO is there to protect all allies against any threat. DW's full interview with Jens Stoltenberg will air next week. West Germany officially joined the trans-Atlantic alliance in 1955. However, it wasn't until after reunification in 1990 that the German government considered "out of area" missions led by NATO. From peacekeeping to deterrence, Germany's Bundeswehr has since been deployed in several countries across the globe in defense of its allies. In 1995, Germany participated in its first "out of area" NATO mission as part of a UN-mandated peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the deployment, German soldiers joined other NATO member forces to provide security in the wake of the Bosnian War. The peacekeeping mission included more than 60,000 troops from NATO's member states and partners. Since the beginning of the NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, some 8,500 German soldiers have been deployed in the young country. In 1999, NATO launched an air assault against Serbian forces accused of carrying out a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanian separatists and their civilian supporters. Approximately 550 Bundeswehr troops are still stationed in Kosovo. In 2016, Germany deployed its combat support ship "Bonn" to lead a NATO mission backed by the EU in the Aegean Sea. The mission included conducting "reconnaissance, monitoring and surveillance of illegal crossings" in Greek and Turkish territorial waters at the height of the migration crisis. Germany, Greece and Turkey had requested assistance from the trans-Atlantic alliance. In 2003, Germany's parliament voted to send Bundeswehr troops to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Germany became the third-largest contributor of troops and led the Regional Command North. More than 50 German troops were killed during the mission. Nearly a thousand soldiers are still deployed in Afghanistan as part of Resolute Support. Forming part of NATO's "enhanced forward presence" in the Baltic states, 450 Bundeswehr soldiers have been deployed to Lithuania so far in 2017. The battalion-size battlegroups there are led by Germany, Canada, the UK and US to reinforce collective defense on the alliance's eastern flank. It forms the "biggest reinforcement of Alliance collective defence in a generation," according to NATO. The Bundeswehr is due to take over leadership of NATO's multinational Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) at the start of 2019. The rapid reaction force has been set up to counter potential Russian aggression on the alliance's eastern flank. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/aw