A suicide car bomber blew himself up in eastern Afghanistan on Saturday, killing 21 people and wounding another 41. The blast, in the Rodat district of Nangarhar province, happened as officials and Taliban fighters celebrated a three-day ceasefire marking the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had announced a separate eight-day ceasefire with the Taliban on Tuesday, which he extended on Saturday. Ghani asked the Taliban to reciprocate by extending its truce. Read more: Afghanistan: Ghani announces ceasefire with Taliban for Eid al-Fitr Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams A spokesman for the provincial governor of Nangarhar confirmed a car bomb was responsible for the attack in the town of Ghazi Aminullah Khan. He had earlier said a rocket-propelled grenade had been used. A Taliban fighter told the AFP news agency that, while he welcomed the ceasefire, long-lasting peace would only be achieved if US forces left the country. "We want an Islamic country and government. This cannot happen unless America leaves (Afghanistan)," he said. Islamic State said it carried out the attack which targeted "a gathering of Afghan forces," according to the group's Amaq news agency. Read more: Calls to rethink German refugee policy on Afghanistan Taliban fighters celebrating a truce on the second day of Eid Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)