Eight people were injured on Saturday when a taxi driver plowed into a crowd of people in central Moscow. CCTV footage posted on social media showed the cab driving about 10 meters (about 30 feet) along the crowded pavement before hitting a traffic sign and coming to a partial stop. The footage showed bystanders trying to pull open the driver's door, and the driver then jumping out of the cab and running away. Other pedestrians chased after him and could be seen trying to tackle him to the ground. Moscow police have detained the driver and opened a criminal investigation into a suspected violation of the traffic code.  'Asleep at the wheel' Moscow's traffic authority said the driver had a license from Kyrgyzstan, a mainly Muslim ex-Soviet republic. It said the driver was not drunk and Interfax news agency cited a source saying there was no alcohol in his blood. The city's mayor, Sergei Sobyanin, said on Twitter that the driver "failed to maintain control." He said several people were injured and received the necessary medical assistance. "I am keeping the situation under control," Sobyanin added. In a video released by police, the driver said he wanted to hit the brakes but accidentally hit the accelerator instead. The driver said he had been working 20 hours by the time the incident happened. "I regret very much... I wanted to go home afterward, to have a sleep," he said. When asked why he ran away, he said he was afraid he would have been beaten to death by angry bystanders.  All of the injured had been taken to hospital. Seven were in a satisfactory condition, according to a statement from Moscow city's health care department. One woman was seriously hurt. The Mexican embassy in Moscow said two Mexican women, visiting the city for the World Cup, had been lightly injured by the taxi. A Ukrainian and two Russian nationals were also among those hurt, reported Russia's TASS news agency. kw,dj/cmk (AFP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.