Saudi Arabia on Monday issued driver's licenses to 10 women on Monday. The announcement comes three weeks before a ban on women driving is set to be lifted following King Salam's decision last year to allow women to drive . Saudi Arabia is the only country in the world where women are not allowed drive but this will change on June 24. Read more: Saudi Arabia's Mohammed bin Salman: Reformer and hard-liner About 2,000 licenses are expected to be issued for women next week, according to a statement from the Ministry of Information. "The general directorate of traffic today started replacing international driving licenses recognized in the kingdom with Saudi licenses, in preparation for allowing women to drive," the official Saudi Press Agency (SPA) said. The women – who already held driver's licenses from other countries, including the UK, Lebanon and Canada – took a brief driving test before having the right granted to them in Saudi Arabia. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2km8q Campaigners detained But the positive move follows the detention of 17 people last week for "undermining" the kingdom's security, in what campaigners have said is a crackdown against activists. Rights groups have identified some of the detainees as women campaigners for the right to drive and to end the conservative Islamic country's male guardianship system. Read more: Women's rights in the Islamic world Authorities said eight of the detainees had been "temporarily released" until their investigation is completed. However, the Saudi Press Agency reported that nine suspects, including four women, remained in custody after they "confessed" to a number of charges including suspicious contact with "hostile" organizations and recruiting people in sensitive government positions. Girls have not always been able to go to school like these students in Riyadh. Enrollment at the first school for girls, Dar Al Hanan, began in 1955. The Riyadh College of Education, the first higher education institution for women, opened in 1970. At the start of the 21st century, women could get personal ID cards for the first time. The cards are the only way for them to prove who they are, for example in disputes relating to inheritance or property issues. IDs were only issued with the permission of a woman's guardian, though, and to the guardian instead of directly to the woman. Only in 2006 were women able to get IDs without permission. Saudi Arabia banned forced marriage in 2005, but marriage contracts continue to be hammered out between the husband-to-be and the father of the bride, not the bride herself. In 2009, King Abdullah appointed the first female minister to Saudi Arabia's government. Noura al-Fayez became the deputy education minister for women's affairs. Saudi Arabia agreed to allow female athletes to compete on the national team for the Olympics for the first time. One of them was Sarah Attar, who ran the women's 800 meter race at the 2012 Olympics in London wearing a headscarf. Before the Games, there was speculation that the Saudi Arabian team might be banned for gender discrimination if they didn't allow women to participate. Saudi leaders allowed women to ride bicycles and motorbikes for the first time in 2013 — but only in recreational areas, wearing full Islamic body covering and with a male relative present. In February 2013, King Abdullah swore in the first 30 women to the Shura, Saudi Arabia's consultative council. This allowed women to be appointed to these positions, soon they would be allowed to actually run for office... In Saudi Arabia's 2015 municipal elections, women were able to vote and run for office for the first time. By contrast, New Zealand was the first country to give women the vote, in 1893. Germany did so in 1919. At the 2015 Saudi polls, 20 women were elected to municipal roles in the absolute monarchy. In February 2017, the Saudi stock exchange names the first female chairperson in its history, Sarah Al Suhaimi. On September 26, 2017, Saudi Arabia announced that women would soon be allowed to drive. Starting June 2018, they will no longer need permission from their male guardian to get a driver's license and won't need their guardian in the car when they drive. On October 29, 2017, the country's General Sports Authority announced that women would be allowed into sports stadiums for the first time. Three previously male-only arenas will soon be open for women as well, starting in early 2018. Author: Carla Bleiker law/kms (AFP, AP, dpa)