The US will impose 25 percent tariffs on $16 billion (€13.7 billion) worth of Chinese imports, in addition to the tariffs already in place, the Trump administration announced on Tuesday. Washington already imposed tariffs on $34 billion of Chinese products on July 6. But it held off on a final $16 billion as a result of concerns raised by US companies. China has already retaliated with duties of its own, and has pledged to match the US dollar for dollar with new tariffs. Although the move was expected, it solidifies the view that there appears to be no effort underway to defuse the dispute between the world's two largest economies. The dispute over tariffs has continued to escalate as both sides exchange threats. Last week Trump threatened to jack up the tariff rate on the next $200 billion in Chinese imports it plans to target to 25 percent, from the previously stated 10 percent. July figures showed the US' trade deficit with China decrease only slightly. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31N6N Exchanging  threats China fired back with its own warning and said it would impose duties on $60 billion of US goods. The office of US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said its "exhaustive" investigation showed that "China's acts, policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property and innovation are unreasonable and discriminatory and burden US commerce." Lighthizer said there were 279 new goods to be targeted in the dispute over China's policies promoting theft of American technology. Those items include imports like motorcycles, tractors, railroad parts, electronic circuits, motors and farm equipment. Farmers and US industries have been caught in the crossfire, and the Trump administration announced $12 billion in aid to help farmers hurt by duties on crops such as soybeans. av/aw (AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.