A rocket holding the Aeolus wind surveying satellite launched from Europe's spaceport Kourou, French Guyana on Wednesday, the European Space Agency (ESA) confirmed. The launch took place at 6:20 p.m. local time (2120 UTC) and the flight was scheduled at just 55 minutes from liftoff to separation. The satellite will be placed at an altitude of 320 kilometers (200 miles) above the Earth. The Aeolus satellite, named after the keeper of the winds in Greek mythology, is equipped with a Doppler wind lidar – an advanced laser system designed to measure global wind patterns from space. It has been described as the world's first space mission to acquire profiles of the Earth's wind on a global scale. "Aeolus epitomizes the essence of an Earth Explorer. It will fill a gap in our knowledge of how the planet functions and demonstrate how cutting-edge technology can be used in space," said Jan Wörner, ESA Director General. Ironically, the satellite launch was delayed by 24 hours because of adverse weather conditions. Watching the wind The Doppler lidar transmits short, powerful pulses of ultraviolet light towards earth. Air particles such as moisture, dust and gasses scatter a small fraction of that light energy back to the transceiver, where it is collected and recorded. The delay between the outgoing pulse and the "backscattered" signal reveals the wind's direction, speed and distance traveled. The launch is part of the Copernicus project, a joint effort by the European Union and the European Space Agency (ESA) to track environmental damage and assist disaster relief operations. Aeolus is the fifth of ESA's explorer missions. Others have measured or are measuring the Earth's gravity and geomagnetic fields, soil moisture, ocean salinity and frozen expanses known as the cryosphere. Earth observation satellites such as the European Space Agency's Proba-V collect daily images that allow for the tracking of environmental changes over time. The images above - taken in April 2014, July 2015 and January 2016 (left to right) - offer crystal-clear insight into the gradual evaporation of Lake Poopo, once Bolivia's second largest lake - due at least in part to climate change. No matter how long volcanoes sleep, they're always in a bad mood when they wake up. The International Space Station was passing overhead when the Sarychev volcano, located in the Kuril Islands of Russia, erupted in 2009. Astronauts were able to snap a picture through a hole in the clouds. From dense ash to clouds of condensed water, virtually all natural phenomena can be examined from outer space. Every year, wildfires devastate the landscape - and ecology - in numerous countries around the world. Too often, these are caused by humans. This was also the case in Indonesia, where farmers burned peat rainforest areas for agriculture. On the island of Borneo and Sumatra, satellites detected fire hot spots in September 2015, and the plume of grey smoke that triggered air quality alerts. In Germany, parents warn their children that if they don't finish their meals, it's going to rain. And indeed, in 2013 it rained, so much that some of central Europe's major rivers overflowed their banks. As shown in this image from 2013, the Elbe burst its banks following unprecedented rainfall. In the photo, muddy water covers the area around Wittenberg, in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt. A strong storm can cause irreparable damage through intense winds and storm surges from the sea. Space-based information is crucial in following development of such storms: intensity, the direction it's moving, wind speed … in the eastern Pacific Ocean near Mexico, this satellite image helped determine how tropical storm Sandra reached winds of 160 kilometers per hour by November 25, 2015. Satellites also play a key role in monitoring climate change and, inevitably, the process of melting ice. From space, scientists were able to document how several glaciers around the globe have receded - as well as the subsequent rise in sea level. This photograph, taken from the International Space Station, shows the retreat of the Upsala glacier in Argentine Patagonia from 2002 to 2013. Dust often covers remote deserts - however, in September 2015, satellites offered this impressive view of Middle East areas enveloped by a dust storm, or haboob, affecting large populated regions. What satellites can observe from space supports air quality sensors on the ground to understand patterns on how the storms start and develop. These findings can improve forecasting methods. These are the words NASA used to describe the lack of snow on California's Mount Shasta, a crucial source of water for the region. Images documenting drought over the past years have consistently been showing brown mountains that should be white, and bare earth where people seek water. As ice melts, drought grows. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz dv/rc (AFP, dpa)