The ZANU-PF party of Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has claimed a majority of seats in parliament, according to official results announced Wednesday. The southern African country this week held its first elections since the downfall of longtime leader Robert Mugabe in 2017. Read more: Zimbabwe election unlikely to solve country's economic woes Riot police backed by water cannon disperse MDC supporters outside the party's headquarters in Harare The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission said ZANU-PF had won 109 of the 153 seats confirmed so far, while 41 seats went to the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC). Fifty-eight of the 210 seats in the National Assembly lower house were yet to be declared. ZANU-PF would need 30 more seats to secure a two-thirds majority that would allow it to change the constitution. Read more: Zimbabwe voters await results of close presidential election Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32MMK Opposition cries foul in presidential race Vote counting is still underway to determine the country's next president, a race many analysts predict 75-year-old Mnangagwa will win. On Wednesday afternoon, riot police were stationed outside the electoral commission in the capital, Harare, where a crowd of opposition supporters gathered to await the results. MDC leader and presidential candidate Nelson Chamisa, who has alleged vote rigging, said on Twitter that he was confident of victory. "We won the popular vote and will defend it!" Chamisa, 40, said. He also accused the commission of announcing the parliamentary results first to "reverse the people's presidential election victory," and "prepare Zim [Zimbabwe] mentally to accept fake presidential results." Read more: Jubilation and threats as Zimbabwe awaits election results Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32I2U Observers criticize bias Elections during Mugabe's 37 years in power were largely marked by violence and allegations of fraud. His replacement, Mnangagwa, promised to hold a free and fair vote. Read more: Zimbabwe elections: Seven takeaways Observers from the European Union said that while the election marked a clear break from the past, "a truly level playing field was not achieved." They noted several problems, including media bias, voter intimidation and lack of public trust in the electoral commission. The EU mission also said it would deliver a more detailed assessment of how the election results are handled and announced at a later stage. nm/rt (AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.