The 2017/18 campaign was one to forget for Borussia Dortmund as they were forced to endure some of their most turbulent times in recent memory, finishing fourth. Given its topsy-turvy nature though, it will unfortunately also be one that lives long in the memory. New head coach Lucien Favre has the advantage of his predecessors, Peter Bosz and Peter Stöger, setting a low bar ahead of his debut season in charge. Banishing the lingering memories will be one of the Swiss' top priorities and BVB's transfer dealings have already sent the right message. Read more: Borussia Dortmund confirm Axel Witsel signing Witsel the jewel in the crown Marwin Hitz will provide real competition for compatriot Roman Bürki in goal, while Abdou Diallo, Marius Wolf and Thomas Delaney all come on board having proven themselves in the Bundesliga with Mainz, Frankfurt and Bremen respectively. However, their latest signing, Axel Witsel, could prove to be the biggest coup of them all. The 29-year-old caught the eye with a string of impressive performances as Belgium finished third at the World Cup and sealed his Dortmund deal in time to join up with the squad at their Bad Ragaz training camp on Monday. "After the World Cup, I was determined to transfer back to Europe,” said Witsel. "I am really happy and also proud that I will soon be able to play for BVB. I didn't have to think about it for very long after our first discussion because Borussia Dortmund is one of the best clubs on the continent in my opinion. I honestly cannot wait to run out in front of 81,000 people.” Borussia Dortmund fans will be hoping Axel Witsel can provide the quality they were lacking in midfield last season. Comfortable in possession, adept at breaking the lines with pace or a pass and tireless in his off- the-ball approach, Witsel embodies qualities Favre favors, which should see him slot straight into BVB's starting line-up. A few too many in midfield As a result, the Belgian's arrival could also speed up Dortmund's clearing out process given the excess of options Favre has at his disposal in the center of the park. Newcomers Witsel and Delaney are set to compete with Mahmoud Dahoud, Mario Götze, Shinji Kagawa, Julian Weigl, Sebastian Rode and Nuri Sahin for one of three starting berths. "We are a bit overloaded in certain areas,” admitted Head of Professional Football Sebastian Kehl. "The next few weeks will be decisive. We want to make sure we have a quality throughout the squad.” Dahoud and Götze have both featured heavily in pre-season, suggesting Favre is looking to breathe new life into the careers of both players and, while Weigl has been linked with a move, Rode and Sahin need to seek pastures new if they want regular first-team football. Read more: Mario Götze is facing another decisive season Favre's pre-season experiments At Borussia Mönchengladbach, Favre favored a 4-4-1-1 formation. At Nice it was the 4-3-3. If early indications are anything to go by though, it appears as if Favre is looking to employ the 4-1-4-1 system in his new role, allowing him the flexibility to switch to either of his preferred formations over the course of an encounter. New Borussia dortmund head coach Lucien Favre has an enviable array of midfield options at his disposal. No matter the system, Favre's style of play demands an exceptional work rate, as the technically gifted work off a midfield anchored by an intense and united pressing effort. At first look, Witsel appears to be a perfect fit. The 96-time Belgian international's vision and playmaking ability should not only complement the more defensive-minded qualities of Delaney in midfield, but also provide a more creative spark in the center of the park - something BVB were sorely lacking at times last season. A big-name signing is a clear signal of intent from a side desperate to halt their decline. Now it's up to Witsel and Co. to build on the momentum as they look to turn a new leaf when their season gets underway. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang gave BVB an early lead on Matchday 8, but goals from Marcel Sabitzer and Yussuf Poulsen (pictured) put RB ahead at the break. It went from bad to worse for BVB after halftime when defender Sokratis was sent off and Jean-Kevin Augustin extended the visitors' lead. Although RB were also reduced to 10 men, Aubameyang's penalty wasn't enough to save Dortmund. Vedad Ibisevic took just 20.6 seconds to get this one going with Hertha's opener and the pace barely let up in a frenetic Sunday evening encounter. We also saw two disallowed goals, a Mario Gomez penalty that rattled the bar, a goal that went in off both posts and a dramatic late equalizer from Hertha's Davie Selke (pictured) which meant the teams shared the points. The Foals have often struggled to find the net this season, but there was no shortage of goals when Hoffenheim visited Borussia Park in March. Julian Nagelsmann's team took the lead three times through Benjamin Hübner (above), Andre Kramaric (penalty) and Florian Grillitsch, but Gladbach responded with Josip Drmic, Lars Stindl and finally, in the 90th minute, Matthias Ginter. Frankfurt got off to a terrible start in this battle for the Champions League places, with Marco Russ turning the ball into his own goal 11 minutes in. Luka Jovic finally equalized in the 75th minute, but Michy Batshuayi quickly restored BVB's lead. Eintracht thought they had a draw when Danny Blum pulled them level in injury time. That's when Batshuayi scored another to break Hessian hearts. What a seesaw battle! Julian Brandt's 11th minute volley was canceled out by Ihlas Bebou's header seconds later. Niclas Füllkrug scored from the spot, but Admir Mehmedi struck to pull Leverkusen level. Felix Klaus gave Hannover the lead on halftime but Leon Bailey evened the score early in the second half. His second in the 66th gave Bayer the lead, Julian Korb made it a 4-4 final in the 82nd. At the 15th attempt, Cologne fans must have felt a win was finally theirs. They were 3-0 up in 30 minutes, the second coming in comedic fashion as Sehrou Guirassy (19) and the referee initially struggled locate the penalty spot. Freiburg pulled it back to 3-2 but with 90 minutes gone, Cologne looked safe. But the hapless hosts gave away two stoppage time penalties and Nils Petersen scored both. This truly was one of the most entertaining matches of the season — unless you are a BVB fan. Dortmund came out flying in the first half, taking a 4-0 lead in the first 25 minutes. Schalke looked shell-shocked, but they were a changed team after the break, fighting back with three goals to get close the gap to one. Naldo headed home four minutes into injury time to earn the draw in Dortmund. Aaron Hunt's 84th minute thunderbolt gave Hamburg a stunning 3-2 win over second-placed Schalke to lift them off the bottom of the table. Naldo had struck first for Schalke in the seventh minute, but Filip Kostic equalized in the 17th. Lewis Holtby (pictured) gave HSV the lead in the 52nd, but this was canceled out by Guido Burgstaller nine minutes later. Then came Aaron Hunt... BVB fans will remember this match for how Michy Batshuayi announced his arrival in the Bundesliga. The Belgian became the first Bundesliga debutante to score multiple goals since... Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Severely relegation-threatened Cologne gave Dortmund a battle, and looked like possibly snatching a point at home. Andre Schürrle ended that illusion six minutes from time. Author: Matt Pearson, Chuck Penfold