The small town of Schönberg in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania has become the scene of an ugly neo-Nazi hate campaign after a young boy was hit by a tractor on June 20. Two men have since been identified in connection with the crime. In the weeks after the accident, swastikas were twice daubed at the site, and twice removed by local authorities. Local police reported that the 9-year-old boy had lost his balance while riding his bike on the sidewalk and had strayed onto the road, where he was hit by the tractor. He died a few days later in hospital. Two weeks later, on July 8, a local resident reported that a large swastika had been painted at the spot on the sidewalk with white paint. It was removed, but a new swastika, also in white paint, was found at the same spot on July 28, this time with "1:0" written next to it. The mother of the boy told the Bild newspaper, "What did we do to deserve a swastika to be drawn there?" The family arrived in Germany from the city of Idlib, Syria, in 2015. On Monday, state prosecutors announced that they had identified two men, aged 22 and 23, in connection with the crime, after tip-offs from the public. "A search of the homes of the suspects did not lead to the discovery of the spraypaint, but the suspicion remains on account of further investigation results," prosecutors said in a statement. Prosecutors added that the two men were being investigated on suspicion of using symbols of an anti-constitutional organization and public property damage. They are "assuming xenopobic motives." Read more: Life in the Nazi village Neo-Nazis in northeastern Germany Displaying Nazi symbols is illegal in Germany, and far-right extremists are tracked by the domestic intelligence agency, the Verfassungsschutz. "We don't have a [neo-Nazi] scene here," Schönberg Mayor Lutz Götze told DW. "But we do have residents who pursue this political direction. People have different opinions on refugee policy, but I've never heard a voice supporting this neo-fascist ideology. That is rejected by everyone." Götze added that there are around 40 refugees currently living in the town, and that they were well integrated in the community. "They work, they attend language classes, they go to the school," he said. "We don't just have refugees," he added. "We have several nationalities in the town: people from Russia, from Kazakhstan, from India, Iraqis. They work here too, and there are no difficulties. The same goes for Syrian residents." Lorenz Caffier, interior minister of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, described the swastikas on the sidewalk as a "shocking mockery of the victim." "A connection between the swastika daubings and the tragic accident is highly likely," Caffier told Bild, before adding that he had ordered security forces to do everything to investigate the incident as quickly as possible. State Premier Manuela Schwesig also condemned the graffiti. "This is a disgusting act," she told the local Nordkurier newspaper. "There is nothing worse than losing one's own child. I am horrified that anyone could be so filled with hate. Everything must be done to find the perpetrators." The town of Jamel, just 30 kilometers (19 miles) away, has developed a reputation as a neo-Nazi stronghold, with immigrants driven away from the area with arson attacks in the early 2000s. An anti-Nazi rock concert was held in the town last year to counter the image and stand up to far-right supporters in the town. Mayor Lutz Götze refused to speculate on who was responsible for the graffiti, though he said it "could not be ruled out" that the perpetrators had come from outside Schönberg, which has a population of just 4,400. The name Jamel rockt den Förster hardly trips off the tongue, but the two-day celebration of music and protest against Nazis in a northeastern German village has become a cultural institution. Here are some of this year's highlights. The festival is the brainchild of Horst and Birgit Lohmeyer, who were dismayed to learn that many of the 40 other inhabitants of their village were right-wing extremists. So, for two nights every summer, those bad neighbors are kept awake by some very loud music. There's a lot of punk music at the Jamel festival, but this years lineup - which, as always, was kept top secret - was surprisingly diverse. Gold Roger are a hip-hop outfit from Cologne with a fast-talking frontman. Not surprisingly, the Lohmeyers' neighbors tend to keep a low profile when the festival is on. The crowd in Jamel makes no secret of where their political sympathies lie and would probably not give right-wing parties and their followers a very warm welcome. One of the top acts book for the 2017 festival were the veteran Hamburg power poppers Die Sterne (The Stars). They played a mix or newer material and popular favorites that helped establish the musical style known as the Hamburger Schule (Hamburg School). The act that drew the most lively response from the crowd on Friday night was Kraftklub, from Chemnitz in eastern Germany. Frontman Felix Brummer even did a bit of crowd surfing in what was a very dynamic show. The festival is now entering its second decade and shows no signs of slowing down. Bands are eager to play it, and music fans are eager to get tickets even though they don't know in advance which groups will be appearing. All of that makes for a unique festival experience. Author: Jefferson Chase