A Shiite mosque in the eastern Afghan city of Gardiz was the target of a suicide attack on Friday, local health officials told media. "We have 20 people killed and around 50 others were wounded," General Raz Mohammad Mandozai, provincial police chief, told AFP news agency. Read more: Afghanistan: Deadly suicide attack at Kabul airport as exiled VP Dostum returns Varying accounts Abdullah Asrat, spokesman for the provincial governor, said one of the attackers blew himself up through a door of the mosque, which was packed with worshippers attending weekly Friday prayers. Another government official said two bombers armed with automatic rifles entered the Shiite mosque and started shooting worshippers before blowing themselves up. The exact death toll has not been confirmed so far, with different official accounts putting the number between 20 and 70. With a high number of the injured, the death toll is expected to rise. Uptick in violence No group has claimed responsibility for the attack but "Islamic State" (IS) militant group and its affiliates have targeted Afghan Shiites in the past. Afghan Taliban denied any involvement in the attack. Sunni militant groups in the region consider Shiites, who belong to a minority Islamic sect, apostates, and oppose Iran's influence in the area. The surge in violence comes as US and Afghan forces intensify ground and air offensives against IS, with reports emerging that Kabul and Taliban are "accomodating each other" to defeat IS. Both Taliban and IS are vying for control of territory in the war-torn country. Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams shs/rt  (AFP, AP, dpa)