A strawberry — or rather a cup of them — a day could keep the doctor away. That's what researchers found out when they looked into the connection between strawberries and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Millions of people worldwide suffer from Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, or IBD. In everyday life, however, it's still a topic that hardly anyone talks about —  too private, too embarrassing. This is because chronic inflammation of the intestinal mucosa is accompanied by phases of painful abdominal cramps, frequent and sometimes bloody diarrhea, nausea and fatigue over many years. Despite intensive research, the causes for the development of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are still not completely clear — to date, an interplay of genetic predisposition, risk and environmental factors such as smoking, eating habits and hygiene, as well as a disturbance of the intestinal mucosa's barrier function are regarded as triggers. Crohn's disease causes severe inflammation of the intestines IBD - a constant companion? In both diseases, the symptoms can be partially alleviated with drugs like cortisone, as well as with antibody therapies and surgical measures. While Crohn's disease is currently incurable, ulcerative colitis can be cured by surgical removal of the entire large intestine including the rectum. But it doesn't have to come to that. After all, patients' lifestyles and eating habits often play a major role. Experts say that a sedentary lifestyle and bad dietary habits, like a high-sugar, high-fat, low-fiber diet, promote intestinal inflammation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2mrrU But there's also food that's known as IBD-compatible. This applies, for example, to fruit and vegetables, even if it cannot be said across the board. According to a new study, there now seems to be an official IBD superfood: the strawberry. Researchers at the University of Massachusetts have taken a closer look at it and found that strawberries can help to alleviate the symptoms of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. The strawberry diet The team of researchers led by Dr. Hang Xiao has tested the healing effect of strawberries on mice, some of which suffered from chronic intestinal inflammation. Some of the rodents were fed with freeze-dried strawberries. The result: Eating strawberries significantly suppressed symptoms like body weight loss and bloody diarrhea in mice with IBD. But decreased inflammation wasn't the strawberry's only benefit, the study showed. With IBD, the abundance of harmful bacteria increases, while levels of beneficial bacteria in the colon decrease. The researchers observed a reversal of that unhealthy microbiota composition in the sick mice after the rodents had been eating whole strawberries for a while. Xiao's team presented the results at the 256th National Meeting & Exposition of the American Chemical Society (ACS). Did you know that strawberries are not actually berries? Botanically speaking strawberries are considered "aggregate fruits," whereas a banana is (suprise!) a berry. But that's a whole other story... According to the researchers, humans need a little more than the mini dose of strawberries that the mice have received — about one small cup of strawberries a day. Next steps Besides that, Yanhui Han, a Ph.D. student who conducted the study, points out that it's important to study the effects of whole berries. Most of the previous reports focused on the effects of purified compounds and extracts from strawberries. "But when you only test the purified compounds and extracts, you miss out on a lot of other important components in the berries, such as dietary fiber, as well as phenolic compounds bound to the fibers, that can't be extracted by solvents," he said. The next step is to find out whether the healing effect of strawberries can also be confirmed in humans. Hang Xiao and his team will therefore start working with IBD patients. Do not change your diet on your own At the same time, the researchers warn that Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis patients should not change their diet on their own, but only after consulting with their doctor. Although the pineapple's exact origins remain unknown, Christopher Columbus is said to have discovered the pineapple in Guadeloupe, a Caribbean island colonized by the French in the 17th century. Pictures like this one (from France, around 1900), showing a farming collective, were supposed to bring Europeans closer to the exotic flora of their South Sea colonies. Have you ever thought about how a pineapple grows? What the plant actually looks like? It's a member of the Bromeliaceae family; bromeliads are popular indoor plants in Germany because they are robust and form pretty flowers. Rooted in the soil, the pineapple plant forms a trunk with many thick-fleshed leaves. The flower develops at the upper end of the stem. The blossom is comprised of many small, individual blossoms — around 100 to 200 pieces. Over time, they develop into the pineapple fruit. Even though the plant can grow quite large, botanists have labeled the pineapple as a berry. The pineapple is a miracle-worker, health-wise. It contains loads of vitamin C alongside other minerals and trace elements like manganese, copper, magnesium, phosphorus, iron, iodine, zinc and an enzyme called bromelain, said to be good for digestion. Pineapple regulates metabolism and is a mood enhancer. In addition, it is said to help with detoxify and — most importantly — make one beautiful. Although the pineapple is healthy, it is not necessarily good for weight loss. One popular pineapple diet would have you eating just pineapple while drinking plenty of water or tea. If you do this for a few days, you actually lose weight. Not so fast, though: The pineapple does not lead to long-term loss of fat, but only dehydrates you. Once the diet is over, the famous yo-yo effect occurs. German TV chef Clemens Wilmenrod claimed to have invented Toast Hawaii in the 50s. A slice of toast with ham, a slice of pineapple and the whole thing covered with melted cheese and — voila! One of the most popular German dishes of the 70s and 80s, these sandwiches can still be found on the menu of many of the country's snack bars or parties to this day. The Italian version: pizza Hawaii. Asian cuisine, in contrast, is a bit more refined in its use of pineapple. An integral part of a typical vegetable mix, the pineapple is used in dishes from Vietnam, Thailand or Cambodia. This photo shows the Cambodian fish dish "Amok Trey," made with coconut milk, lemongrass, mushrooms and pineapple. Piña Colada means sifted pineapple in Spanish. It's a sweet and creamy cocktail mixing coconut cream, rum and pineapple. Some bartenders add a touch of cream and coconut liqueur. The recipe is not a hard one: 6 cl white rum, 2 cl coconut liqueur, 10 cl pineapple juice, 2cl cream, 4cl coconut milk. Put everything in the shaker and shake well. Put ice into the glass, pour over it, decorate: ready. Author: Silke Wünsch (ct)