Concrete structures such as bridges or large halls have to withstand a lot: Ever heavier trucks thunder across the streets, factory buildings have to carry the weight of huge machines. The floors of dance halls have to withstand hundreds or even thousands of people jumping rhythmically at the same time. The weather also damages the buildings. Reinforced concrete or prestressed concrete is actually quite stable and can carry heavy loads. But there are certain influences that destroy this stability. Water, acid, rust and loads This includes water in particular if it penetrates the building and corrodes the steel reinforcements that give the concrete its strength. It is even worse when road salt or other aggressive chemicals are added because the reinforcements rust through much faster. Acids attack not only the metal, but also the concrete itself. The lime-containing compounds of the cement dissolve — the concrete leaches out and becomes brittle. Even rainwater can trigger something like this, especially if the concrete is rough and the surface is fissured, which allows the penetration of water. Extreme physical stresses that cause the structure of the concrete to crumble are also a great danger. These can be vibrations, large masses that affect the structure, such as mountains of snow and ice on roofs or recurrent vibrations caused by trucks on bridges. Read More: MoMA showcases Brutalist architecture of former Yugoslavia Visual inspection alone is not enough During an inspection, engineers first take a thorough look at the building from the outside: Are there obvious water marks? Have stalactites formed under the building? This would mean that water has penetrated the concrete for a long time and rinsed out lime. Is there spalling of the concrete? Are there any reinforcement parts that are visibly rusted? Is the surface covered with algae or mosses? Then the engineers have to find out where the reinforcements are located. Old construction plans — if available — are useful for this purpose. Next, magnetic-inductive measuring devices are used — similar to metal detectors that DIY enthusiasts use to search for cables and pipes in the wall or that treasure hunters use to search for old coins. The devices can detect metals about ten centimeters deep in the concrete. Deeper steel reinforcements can also be located with radar units. Those can also detect water accumulations. Taking samples from the building Engineers need to know where the reinforcements are before drilling a core as a sample. They do not want to hit the steels during drilling. The drill cores can later be tested in the laboratory for fracture and compressive strength. The state of corrosion of the steel reinforcement in a building can first be estimated non-destructively. For this purpose, the method of potential field measurement is used. It is based on the fact that the steel wires of the reinforcement behave similar to a battery when it corrodes, for example, through penetrating salt water. One part of the reinforcement then automatically becomes the anode, another the cathode. When engineers place a measuring device on the concrete floor and move it over its entire surface, they can measure an electric field. Where a strong anodic potential becomes visible, the reinforcement is likely to corrode deep in the concrete. The engineers then have to examine these points in more detail. The concrete should protect the iron reinforcement from water and air. This is only possible if it is firm and its surface is fine. For this purpose, they can also open up the concrete and inspect the reinforcing steels on a trial basis or remove them. However, this is only possible if a structural engineer has ensured that the stability of the building is not endangered by the removal. These pieces, about 35 centimeters long, are sent to the lab. Experts then determine how much tensile force they can still withstand before they tear. For example, it can be determined whether the metal has already become unstable due to hairline cracks. Are the tension wires already torn? Reinforcements play a particularly important supporting role in prestressed concrete structures. The tension wires ensure that long bridge sections remain stable in themselves. The engineers use a similar procedure to find out whether such tension wires are broken: They take advantage of the fact that every wire acts like a rod magnet and measure its magnetic field with devices that they move over the surface. There where a magnetic field ends and a new one begins with different polarity is definitely a break in the steel. With a hammer against the wall Not only the reinforcement, but also the concrete is first tested without damaging it. The most common and universal method is to measure the compressive strength of the concrete using a rebound hammer. This is a spring-driven bolt that hits the surface of the concrete at a defined speed. Then it rebounds more or less strongly. The strength of the rebound shows how much energy the concrete absorbs from the impact. Litmus test: What is the pH value of the concrete? In addition to its physical strength, good concrete must also be chemically stable enough to protect the reinforcing steel it contains. When concrete comes into contact with water, it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air. This results in a so-called carbonization of the concrete. For the concrete itself, this would not be a problem, because it makes it even stronger than before. But the armoring irons suffer from it: They rust faster. The degree of carbonization is determined by spraying on an indicator solution of phenolphtalein — similar to the litmus pH test strip from chemistry classes. Of course, the building inspectors can also do this in the laboratory. Built in 1971, Miodrag Zivkovic's monument to the Battle of Sutjeska is located in Sutjeska National Park, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was erected to commemorate the some 20,000 partisans who fought against advancing German forces in May and June 1943. The work is shown in MoMA's "Toward a Concrete Utopia: Architecture in Yugoslavia, 1948-1980" exhibition. The National and University Library of Kosovo was designed by Andrija Mutnjakovic and inaugurated in Pristina in 1982. It's mission is to "collect, preserve and promote the documentary and intellectual heritage of Kosovo." According to the architect, the building itself is meant "to represent a style blending Byzantine and Islamic architectural forms." It is likewise depicted in the MoMA show. Brutalist architecture is characterized above all by its exposed, raw concrete – called "béton brut" in French, which gave the style its name. A pioneer of the movement was the famous Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier. Pictured here is a section of his Unité d'Habitation in Marseilles, France. Many Brutalist buildings are threatened today, damaged through neglect or facing demolition. Brutalism was popular from the 1950s to the 1970s, when concrete giants were erected all over the world. Influencing a whole architectural movement on the Indian subcontinent, Le Corbusier designed distinctive buildings in Ahmedabad and Chandigarh at the beginning of the 1950s, such as the Secretariat Building shown here. The El Helicoide building in Caracas, Venezuela, was initially planned as a huge shopping center, but its construction came to a halt in 1960 due to lacking funds and political conflicts. It was illegally occupied in the 1970s, and later became the headquarters of the country's intelligence agency. Today, parts are used as a detention center. Other sections are abandoned, surrounded by slums. Brutalist buildings are particularly controversial in the United States and Great Britain. As one of the most renowned critics of the architectural style, Prince Charles certainly wouldn't mind getting rid of a few of them. However, The Egg in Albany, New York, is definitely here to stay. Completed in 1978, this performing arts venue is now an icon of the New York Capital District. Despite years spent fighting for its preservation with a high-profile campaign, backed among others by the late star architect Zaha Hadid, the residential complex Robin Hood Gardens in London has been marked for demolition since 2015. The two apartment buildings were conceived by the architects Alison and Peter Smithson and built in the early 1970s. Other Brutalist buildings have obtained a listed status, protecting them from demolition - but sometimes their use remains problematic. The Preston Bus Station in northern UK is too large for the buses currently going through that transport hub. An architectural firm based in New York is in charge of revamping the station and plans to convert part of it into a youth center and sports facilities. Brutalist buildings are threatened in Germany as well. The project #SOSBrutalism, initiated by the German Architecture Museum (DAM) in cooperation with the Wüstenrot Foundation, aims to draw attention to deteriorating buildings. Among them is the Central Animal Laboratory of the Free University of Berlin, also called the "Mouse Bunker." Very often, the funds necessary for the maintenance and restoration needed to save endangered buildings are lacking. St. Agnes Church in Berlin was one of these buildings at risk - until the Brutalist building was leased in 2011 by the gallery owner Johann König, who invested in its restoration. Its distinctive architecture has been preserved, but it is now used as a gallery. The Hotel Thermal was built in the 1960s to showcase cutting-edge Czech architecture and contribute to establishing the reputation of the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival. Now facing possible demolition, the families of the architects have launched the campaign "Respekt Madam" to save the building. Habitat 67 in Montreal, Canada, is one the world's most famous Brutalist buildings. Yet when architect Moshe Safdie designed it for the international exposition Expo 67, he actually claimed it to be a counter reaction to Brutalism. Each of these intricately stacked apartments has its own roof garden. The residential estate was heritage listed in 2009. Author: Julia Hitz (eg), Louisa Schaefer (rls)