A California jury on Friday ordered agrochemical giant Monsanto to pay $289 million (€253 million) to a former school groundskeeper who argued the company's Roundup weed killer caused his terminal cancer. The lawsuit is potentially groundbreaking as hundreds of similar cases arguing the widely used weed killer causes cancer are set to go before state and federal courts. Read more: Glyphosate: The key points in an endless debate The San Francisco jury awarded Dewayne Johnson $250 million in punitive damages and $39 million in compensatory damages, saying Monsanto failed to warn that Roundup may cause cancer. Monsanto said it would appeal the ruling. "This jury found Monsanto acted with malice and oppression because they knew what they were doing was wrong and doing it with reckless disregard for human life," said Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a member of Johnson's legal team. "This should send a strong message to the boardroom of Monsanto." Johnson developed a rash and was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2014 at the age of 42. His lawyers said he developed the cancer after he regularly sprayed large volumes Roundup and a generic product, Ranger Pro, as a groundskeeper at a San Francisco Bay Area school district. During the trial, Johnson's lawyers said on a number of occasions the chemical was exposed or sprayed on his body. In one instance, a hose to a large tank broke and soaked his entire body. Dewayne Johnson said after the verdict that he hopes his case will strengthen hundreds of lawsuits against Monsanto and highlight the danger of glyphosate at the national level. Monsanto denies its products are dangerous, citing hundreds of studies showing the active ingredient in Roundup – glyphosate – is safe. The company, which was recently bought by German multinational Bayer for $62 billion, argued that non-Hodgkin's lymphoma takes years to develop and Johnson must have acquired it prior to starting work for the school district in 2012. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has found that the glyphosate is "not likely to be carcinogenic" and there is no "meaningful risks to human health when the product is used according to the pesticide label." However, the World Health Organization's International Agency for Cancer Research in 2015 classified glyphosate as "probably carcinogenic to humans." Yet in 2016, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) said glyphosate is "unlikely" to cause cancer. California includes glyphosate in its list of chemicals known to cause cancer. Environmentalists point out potential harmful effects of glyphosate on biodiversity and ecosystems. Read more: Glyphosate 'will destroy the whole ecosystem' Glyphosate is the most widely used agricultural herbicide in the world. Monsanto has developed genetically modifying Roundup resistant plants that enable farmers to apply the weed killer without killing their crops. The trial was doubly damaging for Monsanto's reputation because records unsealed by a federal court showed emails between the company and regulators suggesting that it had ghostwritten research attributed to academics labeling the product safe. The suggestion of a close relationship between regulators and pesticide firms has also been put forward by environmental groups in Europe. Read more: Pesticides: Does the EU let industry write its own rules? Debate on the use of glyphosate has been raging for years in Europe, where there have been calls to ban the product. In November, the EU extended a 
license  to use glyphosate for another five years despite resistance from some member states. After that, it may be phased out or banned. Glyphosate has been found in Ben & Jerry's ice cream samples from France, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK, according to a report by the Health Research Institute (HRI). The weed killer is used on crops such as oats and wheat — ingredients used in the Unilever-owned brand's products. The attested quantities could be a health risk, says the US-based Organic Consumers Association. When glyphosate is used to kill weeds on fields of wheat, barley or rye, it can find its way into bread, buns, cakes, cookies or any other baked goods. That's how the herbicide ends up in your Ben & Jerry's cookie dough ice cream. Take corn flakes. Yes, exactly, they are made from field crops too. Food activists last year found that cereals such as Cheerios and Kellogg's Cornflakes contained traces of glyphosate and called the finding "alarming." Still, it's not entirely clear how and when during the production process the weed killer gets into your breakfast cereals. It is clear, though, how glyphosate gets into our water. In the water? Indeed! When the weed killer is used on cultivated fields, it seeps into the groundwater, rivers and lakes. And this way, it turns up not only in our food, but also in beverages ... like the world's most popular chillaxing drink — beer. Several studies have shown small amounts of glyphosate in the beverage made from grains and water, although the most dangerous thing about beer may still be the alcohol content. And whoever, at the end of this list, believes it's okay to smear some honey on what is hopefully a glyphosate-free organic roll, is likely to be unhappy. Flowers that attract bees, and that grow near fields sprayed with glyphosate, are likewise affected, and could turn your sweet hopes into something fairly bitter. Author: Klaus Esterluss cw/sms (AFP, AP, dpa) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 