Alpine rescuers found the bodies of three Italian climbers on Mont Blanc on Friday. The climbers went missing in the French Alps on Tuesday as they attempted to climb Europe's highest peak. Rescuers recovered the body of Luca Lombardini, while the bodies of his brother and his fiancee were located nearby but are yet to be retrieved. Read more: Climate change, mass tourism threaten 
Alps "They are probably buried under rocks and ice in an area covering a few dozen square meters," an official at the rescue service was quoted as saying by Agence France-Presse. According to Italy's ANSA news agency, the ascent was a birthday present for Luca. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2XWMZ Officials believe the group was crossing a ridge at an altitude of about 3,500 meters (11,500 feet), when they slipped and fell together. Their bodies were found at the foot of the Aiguille Verte ("Green Needle"), one of the peaks in the Mont Blanc massif. Fifteen people have died trying to climb the 4,810-metre (10,500-foot) mountain so far this season, compared to last year's season total of 14 dead and two missing. The European heat 
wave  has made conditions more dangerous for climbers in recent weeks. aw/rc (AFP, AP) If you're looking for winter sport tradition in Austria, go to Kitzbühel. There you'll usually find yourself among the glitterati. If they don't actually have homes here, they usually come for the famous Hahnenkamm race in January. The course on the Hahnenkamm, Kitzbühel's local mountain, is considered one of the world's most dangerous downhill runs. The former mountain farming village of Ischgl has only 1,500 residents, but more than 10,000 hotel beds. From here you can reach one of the largest ski resorts in the Alps, the Silvretta Arena. In keeping with its status, at beginning and end of the season there are fitting celebrations with international pop stars at the "Top of the Mountain Concerts." Germany's only glacier ski resort lies slightly below the 2,962-meter Zugspitze. People have been coming here to ski since 1949. Between 2,000 and 2,700 meters up there are 12 pistes ranging from easy to medium, with a total length of 20 kilometers. And above the cloud line, it's often sunny with wonderful views. At 2,713 meters, the Watzmann in Berchtesgaden is Germany's second-highest peak, and it has a very distinctive shape. Together with the neighboring peaks of the massif, Watzmann's Wife (on the left) and her children, the Watzman provides a fantastic backdrop for a winter hike. The ski resort on the Hintertux Glacier has an altitude of 3,250 meters and people can ski on it all year long. Since the end of November 2015, yet another comfort has been added: a new six-person high-speed chairlift with heated seats and a weatherproof dome. It can take 2,800 skiers an hour to the upper terminus. If this building looks familiar to you although you've never been in Sölden, it's certainly because of the latest James Bond film. The Ice Q restaurant, at an elevation of 3,050 meters, was one of the locations where it was shot. It combines gourmet cuisine, stylish architecture and stunning views - reason enough to make your way up to Gaislachkogl peak, even if you're not a skier. The Dolomites are among the best-known mountain ranges in the Alps, with their distinctive peaks, such as the Tre Cime de Lavaredo, the Sella group, the Rosengarten group and the Langkofel. In addition to a ski resort with 1,200 kilometers of pistes, there are numerous routes for ski touring and snowshoeing, like this one on the Fanes high plateau. Sestriere, in the Piedmont Alps, epitomizes winter sports tradition at an elevation of more than 2,000 meters. And that, of course, also has to do with Turin and Fiat. As far back as the 1930s, Fiat founder Giovanni Agnelli had hotels and cable cars built here. The ski resort now boasts 400 kilometers of pistes. In 2006, Sestriere was a main venue for the Winter Olympic Games. Until the mid-20th century, there were only farmers grazing their flocks in summer in the Savoy Alps. Then, in the 1950s, the ski resort of Courchevel was created from scratch, as part of the largest contiguous ski area in the world. The Three Valleys, Courchevel, Méribel and Belville comprise 600 kilometers of slopes linked with one another by a network of ski lifts, gondolas and cable cars. Not only is the Aletsch Arena ski resort part of the Swiss Alps Jungfrau-Aletsch UNESCO World Heritage Site. Here on the Eggishorn near Fiesch, there's an excellent view of what may be the most distinctive peak in the Alps: the 4,478-meter-high Matterhorn. Winter sports have been fashionable in St. Moritz since 1864, not least due to enthusiastic British travelers. They had heard that the sun shone in winter in the Upper Engadine Valley. They ensured that wooden sleds became more than simply a means of carrying hay, and began to be used for sport. The rest is history. Nowadays St. Moritz is one of the world's most exclusive winter sports centers. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff