A former high ranking Vatican official has called on Pope Francis to step down, accusing the pontiff of knowing about sex abuse allegations against a prominent US cardinal for five years before finally accepting his resignation last month. Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano laid out his argument in an 11-page letter that was published Sunday in the National Catholic Register and another conservative site, LifeSiteNews. The 77-year-old Vigano, an arch-conservative with strong anti-homosexual views, said he told the pope in 2013 that Cardinal Theodore McCarrick had faced voluminous allegations of sexually abusing lower-ranking seminarians and priests. Vigano, who was the Vatican's ambassador to the US from 2011 to 2016, wrote that he told Francis: "Holy Father, I don't know if you know Cardinal McCarrick, but if you ask the Congregation of Bishops, there is a dossier this thick about him. He corrupted generations of seminarians and priests and Pope Benedict ordered him to withdraw to a life of prayer and penance." Vigano added that he was surprised to see that shortly thereafter McCarrick began traveling on missions on behalf of the church. He reportedly went to China, and was known to have been one of the Vatican's intermediaries involved in the US-Cuba talks in 2014. Pope Francis began his papal visit to Ireland by acknowledging the "repugnant" sexual abuse of children by clergy and admitted the Catholic Church failed to address the scandal. He later silently prayed in front of a candle commemorating the victims of abuse in St. Mary's Pro Cathetral in Dublin. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, the country's first openly gay leader, urged Francis to follow through on his promises to provide justice for church abuse victims. "We must now ensure that from words flow actions," Varadkar told Francis in a strongly-worded speech at a reception for the pope. Crowds of people lined the streets in Dublin along the popemobile route for a chance to see Francis on Saturday. Despite the cheering supporters, Francis' reception was much more subdued compared to the massive crowds that greeted Pope John Paul II during his papal visit in 1979. Not all the banners along Francis' route through Dublin were ones of support. As Francis waved to the crowds, one protester held up a sign reading: "Pope head of the biggest paedophile ring in the history of mankind." Protesters decorated Dublin's Ha'penny Bridge with rainbow flags and purple umbrellas to support LGBT inclusion in the church and women's ordination. The blue ribbons tied on the bridge were to remember the church abuse victims. Rounding out his two-day papal visit, Francis led a Mass in Dublin's Phoenix Park where he issued a sweeping apology for the abuse carried out by church leaders. Tens of thousands of people braved the windy and rainy weather to attend the Mass, although turnout was lower than expected. Earlier in the day, he told a crowd in the city of Knock: "I beg forgiveness for these sins." Elsewhere in Dublin, thousands of people joined the Stand4Truth solidarity march for abuse survivors that took place at the same time as Francis' Mass in Phoenix Park. Survivors, their families and supporters walked in silence to the last of Ireland's former Magdalene laundries where unwed mothers were forced to work and separated from their babies. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with AP, dpa, Reuters) Pope Francis asks for forgiveness in Ireland trip The Vatican didn't immediately comment Sunday, as Pope Francis concluded his two-day trip to Ireland in the first papal visit to the country since 1979. Earlier on Sunday, the pontiff also spoke out against sex abuse during a sermon at the Knock shrine in the west of the country, telling the crowd: "I beg forgiveness." Rounding out his papal visit to Ireland, during a Mass at Dublin's Phoenix Park Francis also issued a sweeping apology for the abuse perpetuated and covered up by the Catholic Church. "We ask for forgiveness for the persons in charge within the church hierarchy who did not take action in these situations and kept quiet," he told the tens of thousands of people in the crowd. He vowed there would be no more cover-ups, and said the church would work assiduously to prevent such abuses in the future. While Francis attended the Mass, thousands of people joined abuse survivors, their families and supporters in a solidarity march elsewhere in Dublin. Hundreds of others gathered in the western town of Tuam on Sunday to take part in a vigil at a former home for unwed mothers. An unmarked grave with the remains of an estimated 800 babies was uncovered on the site in 2014. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33lgd Confidence in church shaken by scandals A cascade of child sex abuse scandals dating back to 2002 — and a then-shocking expose by the Boston Globe newspaper — have shaken the foundations of the 1.2 billion-member Catholic church. McCarrick is the first Cardinal in living memory to resign his position in the church's hierarchy. His departure came after a review found that allegations he sexually abused a 16-year-old boy were credible. He is also one of the highest-ranking church officials to face child sex abuse allegations. Cardinal George Pell, the Vatican's third-highest ranking official, is currently on trial in Australia where he faces similar sex abuse charges. The latest revelations emerged earlier this month in the US state of Pennsylvania, where a grand jury report found that 300 priests had abused more than 1,000 children over 70 years across six dioceses. Archbishop Vigano's letter also railed against "homosexual networks present in the Church," with the word "homosexual" appearing 18 times, while the word "child" appears just twice. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. rs, bik/aw (AP, Reuters)