Bayern Munich needed a late goal to make the second round of the German cup, but not even that could hide a very uninspiring display from Niko Kovac's side that left much to be desired. Last year's finalists looked nothing like the side that dismantled Eintracht Frankfurt in the German Super Cup just a week before, as they struggled to find a way past fourth-division Drochtersen/Assel. Facing a star-studded Bayern eleven, the hosts kept the visitors quiet for the entire first half. To the delight and most-likely surprise of the home fans, Drochtersen/Assel defended exceptionally and remarkably nearly scored when midfielder Florian Nagel found space in the box, but his effort wasn't strong enough to beat Manuel Neuer. Bayern looked as pale as their light green away kit. Their best chance of the game came after 55 minutes, when Thiago curled an effort from 25 meters onto the underside of the bar. Bayern showed their frustration - see tweet below - as the game was temporarily halted. In a game that perhaps best displayed the often hailed magic of the cup, captain Sören Behrmann, a car salesman by trade, urged Drochtersen/Assel to keep frustrating their opponents. The sold-out 7,800 stadium couldn't believe what they were seeing. As the 80 minutes approach, Thomas Müller had the ball in the net but it was called back for an offside. A minute later though, Robert Lewandowski deflected Leon Goretzka's strike and Bayern led. That was enough to end One shock and plenty of goals The biggest shock of the day was defending German Cup champions Eintracht Frankfurt crashing out in the first round. For the first time in 22 years, a defending champion went out in the first round. Fourth-division side Ulm powered to a win thanks to a goal from a goalmouth scramble and one brilliant solo effort by Vitalij Lux. Frankfurt delivered another concerningly poor display ahead of the new season, with fears that life after Niko Kovac will be difficult looking justified. Ulm celebrated an unlikely but historic victory against the defending champions Hoffenheim battered Kaiserslautern 6-1, with the visitors leading 3-0 after just 21 minutes. Brazilian attacker Joelinton bagged a hattrick as Julian Nagelsmann's farewell season at the club started with a bang. Werder Bremen also scored six as they too breezed into the second round. Florian Kainz scored the goal of game, as Bremen raced to a 5-1 lead at the break. Leverkusen twice hit the woodwork in a narrow but ultimately deserved win. Both Wolfsburg and Nuremberg also made it through, but delivered performances that left them looking fortunate winners. Despite going down to 10 men after just three minutes (Moussa Niakhate was dimissed for a late tackle), Mainz held on to beat Aue. Hamburg threw away a two-goal in an eight-goal thriller, but two goals in a second-half minute from Pierre-Michel Lasogga helped the former Bundesliga side advance. Schalke made it through on Friday night, although St. Pauli were not as fortunate. German Cup First Round Results (Saturday): Drochtersen/Assel 0-1 Bayern Munich Elversberg 0-1 Wolfsburg Kaiserslautern 1-6 Hoffenheim Linx 1-2 Nuremberg Pforzheim 0-1 Bayer Leverkusen Ulm 2-1 Eintracht Frankfurt Worms 1-6 Werder Bremen Aue 1-3 Mainz Rödinghausen 3-2 Dynamo Dresden (after extra time) Dassendorf 0-1 Duisburg Erndtebrück 3-5 Hamburg Oberhausen 0-6 Sandhausen