On Saturday, Imran Khan is expected to be inaugurated as Pakistan's prime minister, after winning the nation's general election on July 25. Khan and his Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), or Movement for Justice party, have been a disruptive force in Pakistani politics for years. For some Pakistanis, 65-year-old Khan and the PTI are a new hope, for others he is a polarizing populist who is willing to accommodate Islamists and antagonize the West. But those who know about politics and the economy say that neither he nor anybody else in Pakistan has the remedy for the Islamic republic's structural problems. Khan's supporters celebrate his election victory on July 26 outside his residence in Islamabad From cricket to politics Pakistan's former cricket captain Imran Khan entered politics in the late 1990s, forming the PTI. Although he was loved by millions in Pakistan as one of the greatest cricketers the country has ever produced, and under whose leadership Pakistan won its first Cricket World Cup in 1992, Khan was never considered a serious politician — even by his ardent fans. Prior to a huge public rally in the eastern city of Lahore in October 2011, Khan was considered a "nobody" in Pakistani politics, which is largely dominated by traditional political clans and dynasties, with mostly feudal and tribal backgrounds. Read more: Pakistan election: 'Military does not want Sharif's party to win another term' So how did a person, who was doubted even by members of his own party as a political alternative to the Bhuttos and the Sharifs, become a force to reckon with in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and eventually go on to win a general election? "Khan's stance on corruption, terrorism and nepotism in Pakistani politics has struck a chord with the masses, who are fed up with their ruling elite. He has no corruption charges on him, no foreign assets," explains a PTI activist and biotechnology expert from Islamabad, Khawar Sohail. Widely popular Khan's 2011 Lahore rally showed that he finally managed to transform popular support into political strength. "It was the first time that political analysts and common people started to take him seriously," Owais Tohid, a senior journalist in Karachi, told DW. Read more: Pakistani youth celebrate Khan's election on social media Tohid believes a critical factor is Khan's support among Pakistani youth, who have always played a significant role in the country's politics. They were instrumental in bringing former Pakistani prime ministers, Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto and his daughter Benazir Bhutto, to power in 1973 and 1988 respectively. According to the United Nations, 63 percent of the Pakistani population is under the age of 25. Observers say no political party in Pakistan can do well in elections without youth support. Imran Khan was born in Lahore in 1952, the son of a civil engineer. Khan grew up with his four sisters in a relatively affluent part of the city. He received a privileged education, first in his hometown and then in Worcester, England. It was there that Khan's love and talent for the game of cricket became evident. In 1972, he enrolled at Oxford University to study politics and economics. Khan played cricket throughout his time in England and after returning to his native Pakistan in 1976, he quickly became a regular in the national team. By 1982, he was awarded the captain's armband. Khan enjoyed an illustrious career and was regarded by many as one of the best all-rounders in the world. The ultimate high point of Khan's sporting career saw him captain Pakistan to the 1992 Cricket World Cup in Melbourne, Australia. As if his popularity couldn't get any bigger back home, Khan even took the winning wicket in the final against England. Khan enjoyed hedonistic bachelor life and was a regular fixture on London's nightlife scene. However, in 1995, at age 42, he finally tied the knot to 21-year-old Jemima Goldsmith. During their nine-year marriage, the famous couple provided plenty of fodder for the British and Pakistani tabloids. Despite separating in 2004, Goldsmith has remained a vocal supporter of Khan's politics. Khan wasted little time after retiring from cricket in 1994. Just two years later he entered Pakistani politics and founded the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. However, his popularity was slow to carry over from cricket into politics. In the 1997 general elections, his PTI party failed to win a single seat. Khan remained active in politics over the next decades. In 1999, he supported General Pervez Musharraf's military coup, only to later turn against Musharraf ahead of the 2007 presidential election. Khan was subsequently placed under house arrest and even spent a few days in prison. However, his supporter base continued to grow, and by 2013 he became a key candidate in the general elections. The PTI made substantial gains in the 2013 election, claiming 30 parliamentary seats and finishing second behind the Pakistan Muslim League. The party became the main opposition in the key provinces of Punjab and Sindh. However, its greatest feat was winning its first province in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Khan has often been the butt of jokes for his pacifist stance towards terrorism in the region. He earned the moniker "Taliban Khan" for claiming that the only way to achieve peace with the Taliban in neighboring Afghanistan was through negotiation. Khan was also a vocal critic of US drones strikes on Pakistan and has promised to disengage Pakistan from America's conflicts in the Middle East. Since his divorce from Goldsmith in 2004, Khan has remarried twice. In January 2015, Khan announced his marriage to British-Pakistani journalist Reham Khanm although just 10 months later the couple said they were filing for divorce. In February 2018, Khan married his third wife, Bushra Manika (pictured front row, second from the left), whom he describes as his spiritual adviser. By 2018, Khan's PTI were among the favorites going into the general election. Campaigning on a populist platform, Khan pledged to break away from Pakistan's corrupt legacy. His plans include a poverty reduction program similar to that seen in China. This would see the establishment of an "Islamic welfare state," the creation of 10 million jobs and construction of 5 million homes for the poor. Khan completed his journey from all-star cricketer to political leader on July 26, 2018. With most votes counted, the PTI is expected win up to 119 seats in Pakistan's 272-seat parliament. "I started this struggle 22 years ago and today I have been given a chance to fulfill what I dreamed for the country," Khan said in a televised speech. "We will run Pakistan like it's never been run before." Author: David Martin Polarizing figure But some also believe that Khan is backed by Pakistan's right-wing groups, in particular the military establishment, because of his "soft" stance on the Taliban and other Islamist militants. His rise in Pakistani politics, some people say, is due to his "good relations" with the the nation's intelligence agency, ISI. Khan agrees with the organization's stance on matters such as Afghanistan and Pakistan's national security. Read more: Reporting Pakistan election under the military's shadow Amima Sayeed, a development researcher from Karachi, told DW that Imran Khan, an Oxford graduate and ex-husband of the British writer and campaigner Jemima Khan, most definitely supports right-wing extremists. "When the Swat peace deal between the government and the Taliban was introduced in 2009, Imran Khan was the first politician to support it. His collaboration with the Islamic Jamaat-e-Islami party is also a proof of his right-wing agenda," she said. Read more: How would the US deal with a 'Prime Minister Imran Khan'? "He might not sound like a religious political leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami or the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, but his views about the region, the world, and in particular about the militant groups in Pakistan, are sympathetic if not supportive of the religious right," stressed journalist Tohid. "He opposes military crackdown on the militants and dismisses the idea that there has been an increase in the jihadist culture in Pakistan over the years." But that does not mean that Khan is liked by the Taliban. The Pakistani Taliban — who are against parliamentary democracy and the country's constitution — have long criticized Khan for being a "liberal" and supporter of the West. They say Khan is no different from other Pakistani politicians. Read more: Pakistan: Imran Khan promises change amid rigging complaints In several interviews with Western media, Khan has denied allegations that his party is trying to accommodate the Islamists. He has also said he wants good ties with the US and the West. The two sides of Khan can be a balancing factor for Pakistan and its deteriorating relations with the West, particularly the US, which is in the process of withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan. But Khan can prove to be a double-edged sword for the West as nobody knows which of his sides will dominate after he takes over as Pakistan's prime minister.