At least 131 people were killed and nearly 1,500 injured in the Sunday earthquake on the tropical resort island of Lombok, with the numbers expected to rise further, Indonesian officials said on Wednesday, Rescuers were digging through the rubble of homes, schools and mosques looking for survivors. Meanwhile, survivors faced another night out in the open. Officials said that more than 80,000 people are believed to have been made homeless. Many thousands more are temporarily displaced. The shallow 6.9-magnitude quake on Sunday destroyed thousands of buildings and triggered panic among tourists and locals. It came just a week after another tremor had surged through the holiday island and killed 17. All across the island, once-bustling villages have been turned into virtual ghost towns, with residents sleeping out in the open, too scared to stay near their collapsed homes amid hundreds of aftershocks. "Last night I was on the hill because I was afraid, I heard there would be a tsunami," Din Iqra, from the northern village of Malaka, told the AFP news agency. "Only this morning were we brave enough to come down." Tourists can just leave, locals cannot Tourist Linda Chov, who was vacationing on Gili Trawanga, told DW that it was not until she finally got to Lombok 37 hours after the quake that she saw the true scale of the devastion. "Whole villages were demolished, locals left homeless on the side of the roads. It was really extraordinary to see and I feel for those that can't just cut their vacation short or rearrange their hotel bookings," she said, adding: "The people who are really affected by the natural disaster are those that are left picking up the pieces not us tourists." Speaking of her experiences in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, Chov described scenes of organizational initiative, helpfulness, empathy, desperation, selfishness and crime. She said: "Throughout the ordeal people's true colors really came out." The 6.9-magnitude earthquake hit the Indonesian island of Lombok on Sunday. It was the second deadly quake in a week to hit Lombok, after a July 29 quake killed 16 people and damaged hundreds of houses, some of which collapsed on Sunday. National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho the damage in the north of Lombok was "massive." Thousands of homes and buildings were damaged and 20,000 people were in temporary shelters. "There are challenges: the roads were damaged, three bridges were also damaged, some locations are difficult to reach and we don't have enough personnel," Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said. Many of the victims were treated outdoors due to hospitals being damaged and efforts were further hampered as the quake caused blackouts in several areas of Lombok's main city of Mataram. Indonesia's location on the Pacific "Ring of Fire," an arc of volcanoes and fault lines in the Pacific Basin, makes it prone to earthquakes. Tourism, one of Indonesia's most important revenue avenues, was expected to take a hit as hundreds of holidaymakers were ordered to evacuate Lombok's neighboring Gili islands. Authorities said at least one person, an Indonesian, was killed on the popular trio of holiday islands, while another tourist died on the nearby island of Bali. Hundreds of people crammed onto a beach in the Gili islands as they waited to be taken to safety. Four agencies, including the military and the national search and rescue agency, were involved in the evacuation. "We cannot evacuate all of them all at once because we don't have enough capacity on the boats," Muhammad Faozal, head of West Nusa Tenggara's tourism agency, said. Author: Louisa Wright Relief efforts underway According to Silverius Tasman from the organization Yayasan Sayangi Tunas Cilik, a partner of Save the Children in Indonesia, many people were sleeping in makeshift shelters in rice fields or on the roadside. "They do not have a water supply and not enough food," Tasman told AFP, after visiting Karang Bajo village in the island's north. "Children are the most vulnerable."  The military dispatched five planes with food, medicine, blankets, field tents, and water tankers from Jakarta on Wednesday. The quake struck across the Muslim-majority island during Sunday evening prayers. Rescue crews using heavy equipment to search a collapsed mosque in northern Lombok found three bodies, but also managed to pull one man alive from the twisted wreckage. Tourists leaving Some 5,000 tourists have been evacuated from the Gili Islands; three tiny, coral-fringed tropical islands off the northwest coast of Lombok that are popular with backpackers and divers. Tourists waiting to get off Gili Island Following the quake, tourists crowded onto the beaches on Monday to await transport off the tropical destination. French tourist Laurent Smadja, who had been on Gilli Meno, the smallest of the three islands, described scenes of chaos and confusion in the aftermath of the quake. "We had no electricity and no information about what to do. We saw everybody leaving in boats, but no boat came to us," he told AFP. Shattered roads and a lack of heavy equipment have hampered efforts to reach survivors in the mountainous north and east of Lombok, which were hardest hit. Muhammad Zainul Majdi, the governor of West Nusa Tenggara, said the province was in desperate need of paramedics, food and medicine. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32lkQ av/rt (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.