Paul Manafort, a longtime political operative who for months led US President Donald Trump's winning campaign, was found guilty of eight financial crimes on Tuesday, but a judge declared a mistrial on 10 other counts on which the jury could not agree. The Manafort verdict, which almost certainly guarantees years in prison, is the first trial victory of a special counsel investigation into Trump's associates, establishing the ability of special counsel Robert Mueller's team to persuade a jury. What Manafort was convicted of: Seen here on the campaign trail with then-candidate Donald Trump, Paul Manafort worked in Washington for decades. He worked for the campaigns of Presidents Gerald Ford and George H.W. Bush, as well as for unsuccessful 1996 candidate Bob Dole. Later he began lobbying for foreign leaders in countries such as Saudi Arabia and Russia-friendly politicians in Ukraine. His firm Manafort, Black and Kelly lobbied the US government on behalf of a number of unsavory characters including dictators like Jonas Savimbi, Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines, Ukraine's Viktor Yanukovych, and others. Lobbying for foreign countries requires registration with the Justice Department, which Manafort failed to do. Ukraine's new government has accused Manafort of receiving illegal, off-the-record payments from its predecessor. During Ukraine's 2014 uprising, Manafort is also accused of supporting the violent removal of protestors from Kyiv's Maidan Nezalezhnosti square. Dozens of demonstrators were shot by police. As Manafort's trial begins, one of the key witnesses against him will be Rick Gates, who has cut a deal with Special Counsel Robert Mueller. Gates pleaded guilty in February and is cooperating with prosecutors. Gates has knowledge of Manafort's offshore bank accounts, his work for Ukraine and his relationship with Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. In this photo from Manafort's consutling offices, Konstantin Kilimnik, who allegedly has ties to Russian intelligence, poses for a photo with Manafort and others. It is one of the few images known to exist of Kilimnik, who has been accused by the Mueller investigation of witness tampering. After being indicted, Manafort was allowed to remain free on bail after posting a $10 million dollar bond. A judge sent him to prison when prosecutors accused him of attempting to tamper with the testimony of two witnesses. In prison, Manafort was given VIP treatment, which included having a phone and a laptop. 'Evaluating all options' Manafort's lawyer, Kevin M. Downing, told a press conference on Tuesday that he was disappointed and his client would be "evaluating his options." Trump, who was on his way to a rally in Charleston, West Virginia, said he was "very sad" about the Manafort conviction and dismissed suggestions that the verdict was related to Russian collusion. "I feel very badly for Paul Manafort," Trump said upon arriving in West Virginia Tuesday night. "It does not involve me. It has nothing to do with Russian collusion, we continue the witch hunt." US Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, cautioned US President Donald Trump over a potential pardon of Manafort. "Any attempt by the President to pardon Mr. Manafort or interfere in the investigation into his campaign would be a gross abuse of power and require immediate action by Congress," Warner said in a statement. Warner's statement also said that the verdict refuted Trump's "witch hunt" claims. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30PIJ Special counsel investigation victory: After months of public attacks from Trump, the investigation headed by former CIA director Robert Mueller, recorded its first convictions as it probes Russia's role in the 2016 US presidential election. Michael Cohen, Trump's former lawyer, also pleaded guilty to finance violations. Trump has characterized the investigation as a "witch hunt" and "rigged." Why was there a mistrial? Judge T.S. Ellis declared a mistrial on 10 of the 18 counts, seven of which are bank fraud charges, after the jury, who deliberated for four days, told him that it could not reach a verdict on those charges. What was Manafort accused of? Prosecutors alleged that Manafort, 69, was hiding $16 million (€13.8 million) from US tax authorities, money which he earned as a political consultant for pro-Russian politicians in Ukraine. They also accused him of lying to banks to secure $20 million in loans after his Ukrainian income dried up. The charges against Manafort largely predate his work on Trump's presidential campaign. How is Manafort connected to Trump? Manafort worked for five months on Trump's successful presidential campaign, including three months as chairman. Manafort's role in the campaign was reduced in August 2016, and he resigned as campaign chairman after Steve Bannon, the former executive chairman of far-right media outlet Breitbart News, and Kellyanne Conway, currently a Counselor to the President, took on senior leadership within the campaign. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33HlQ dv/rc (AP, Reuters)