One of three nominated overage players in his country's squad for the under-23 tournament, Son laid on two goals for hat trick hero Hwang Ui-jo on Monday before a late penalty sent the Koreans through to the semifinals with a 4-3 extra time win over Uzbekistan. The 26-year-old also scored the second as South Korea confirmed Germany's early exit from Russia 2018 and started his career in Germany's Bundesliga with Hamburg, before moving to Bayer Leverkusen in 2013. He now plys his trade for English Premier League outfit Tottenham Hotspur, having joined the London club in 2015. Read more: Can the Bundesliga make it big in South Asia? South Korean men between the ages of 18 and 35 must perform two years compulsary military service unless granted an exemption, something Son has not yet done. Despite the Asian Games not being an official FIFA-registered competition, gold at the tournament will earn Son just such an exemption, as would Olympic gold or other significant sporting achievements with national teams. That's the reason Tottenham, who were not obliged to release the forward, have allowed Son to miss up to three early Premier League fixtures in order to captain his country in Indonesia. Son Heung-min (left) celebrates while playing for Bayer Leverkusen South Korea were among the pre-tournament favorites and, as Asia's all-time Premier League top-scorer and a huge celebrity in his homeland, Son is a huge draw for fans. His country won the last edition, beating North Korea in a tense final, but Leverkusen refused to release Son. "I can't say I'm 100 percent sure to win the gold medal. We are on the way to make something, and to win some trophies," Son said ahead of Monday's quarterfinal win. Should South Korea fail to win gold, Son could expect to receive a military call up in the next 18 months, in the prime of his footballing career, meaning another chance to sidestep service is unlikely. Should the attacker fulfill his military service, he will be paid 310,000 won ($275, €235) per month and could be assigned a range of duties, from riding tanks to standing patrol at the heavily fortified border with North Korea - with whom the South remains technically at war. While most top South Korean footballers can spend their service playing for the K-League's military side Sangju Sangmu, Son is not eligible as he has never appeared in the domestic league. South Korea face Vietnam in the last four on Wednesday and the winner will play Japan or the United Arab Emirates in the final on Saturday. Daniel Ginczek (pictured) followed a goal on his German Cup debut with a last gasp winner on his league debut as Wolfsburg took the points. John Brooks had earlier played hero and villain, powering home a header on his 100th Bundesliga appearance before making a dangerous tackle that allowed Nabil Bentaleb to equalize from the spot. Schalke had Matija Nastasic sent off after a VAR referral. After five years away from the top table, it took Düsseldorf just 39 minutes to get back among the Bundesliga goals. Benito Raman nodded them in to a half time lead. But Martin Hinteregger pulled one back with his head before Andre Hahn (right) completed a hat trick of headers on his league debut for Augsburg to complete the comeback and secure Augsburg a first ever opening weekend Bundesliga win. The other promoted side fared no better as Nuremberg fell to defeat in the capital. Hertha skipper Veded Ibisevic (19) took advantage of some brilliant work from Valentino Lazaro to stroke the hosts in front in the first half. Mikael Ishak wasted the chance to salvage a point for Nuremburg when he put his 85th minute penalty too close to keeper Rune Jarstein. Nicolai Müller (left) loves to make an impact on the opening weekend. He scored the winner on his Frankfurt league debut on Saturday after joining from Hamburg, where he also scored on Matchday 1 of 2017-18, before injuring himself while celebrating. That injury kept him out until May and he was a little more careful this time round. Sebastien Haller sealed the Eagles the win late on. It was all even in Bremen as the home team denied Hanover a winning start to the season. The guests had gone in front through debutant Hendrik Weydandt - who was playing amateur football four years ago - in the 76th minute. But with just five minutes to play, defender Theodor Gebre Selassie popped up with the equalizer for Bremen. Gladbach got their campaign off to a great start with an entertaining win over fellow European hopefuls Leverkusen. Thorgan Hazard missed a first-half penalty, but Gladbach were given another chance from the spot in the 55th minute, with Jonas Hofmann making no mistake. Just three minute later, Fabian Johnson finished off a slick move to hand Gladbach a 2-0 victory. Mainz opened their season with all three points in what was a tight battle against Stuttgart. Mainz fielded their youngest ever Bundesliga team and the inexperienced side proved themselves more than a match for the Bundesliga. Anthony Ujah proved the difference, finishing off a counter-attack in the 76th minute to hand Mainz a 1-0 victory. A successful Bundesliga debut for Lucien Favre as BVB coach. Despite Leipzig's Jean-Kevin Augustin scoring the fastest goal in Bundesliga history after just 32 seconds, the home side bounced back. Mahmoud Dahoud equalized with a spectacular header, Marco Reus assisted an own-goal and scored (90'), but Axel Witsel stole the show with a bicycle kick to hand the BVB a 4-1 victory. Goals from the familiar trio of Thomas Müller, Robert Lewandowski and Arjen Robben took Bayern Munich to a hard-fought win in Niko Kovac's first league match in charge. But Hoffenheim were aggrieved at the dubious penalty that made it 2-1 just as the men in white threatened an upset. VAR made Bayern take the penalty again before ruling out another Müller goal. A strange way to start the season.