Refresh page for regular updates (all times in CEST) 71' Dortmund look absolutely blunt in attack. No attacking threat and they're really missing Batshuayi, who was so effective for them in the second half of last season. 68' Pulisic skins the Fürth right-back but Roberto Hilbert, but Hilbert recovers very well to cut out Pulisic's cross at the expense of a corner. Fürth get the corner clear. 64' Right on cue, Dortmund replace Mario Götze with Maximilian Philipp. 62' Over an hour gone and still no breakthrough. We're surely not far away from a substitution for Dortmund. 60' DOUBLE CHANCE DORTMUND! Götze first cuts in from the left and drills a low shot at goal, but it is charged down. The ball falls at the feet of Pulisic, who finds space to dig out a shot, and the ball crashes against the outside of the post. 59' A long ball tries to pick out Reus, but it races away from the Germany forward. Dortmund seem to be running out of ideas... 56' A deep cross almost finds Julia Green at the far post, but the American can't wrap his foot around the ball. It was a difficult chance. 54' Piszczek cuts in from the right and drills a low shot at the Fürth goal, but it's relatively comfortable for Burchert. 53' You would think that Dortmund would be more than equipped to punish Fürth on the counter-attack, but the final pass is always off and they lack a focal point to their attack. 50' Schmelzer forced into clearing a deep free-kick into the Dortmund box as Fürth keep up the pressure here. 48' Decent chance for Fürth as they win a corner early on. The home side showing plenty of positivity at the start of this second half. 46' We're back underway in Fürth. Goalless at half time, with chances at a premium. 45' Fürth 0-0 Dortmund — Goalless at the break and Fürth deserve every bit of it. Dortmund have looked dangerous at times, but have absolutely no end product. Frustrating for them, but the Fürth fans are bouncing. 42' It's been a frustrating half for Dortmund, who have been the dominant side but haven't created much to warrant the lead. 0-0 and almost half-time, and Fürth are good value for it. 40' Dortmund ping a couple of free-kicks into the Fürth box but it doesn#t fall for anyone and Fürth live another day. 36' Fürth right-back Roberto Hilbert cuts in from the right and has a go from a long way out, and it drifts just wide. Worth a go. 33' Schmelzer completely misjudges a header back to Bürki and it goes out for Fürth's first corner of the game... but Dortmund handle the ball into the box with ease. 32' CLOSE! Reus bends a lovely free-kick around the wall and dipping towards goal, but Fürth keeper Sascha Burchert does well to tip it over. Dortmund getting closer... 29' Fürth will do very, very well to reach half time on level terms. 26' Dortmund creating most of their chances down their right wing, which is giving poor Max Wittek lots to do. Würth are struggling to handle Dortmund when they fly forward in numbers. 23' Reus and Schmelzer each stab at the ball from close range, but Fürth get bodies back to deny them. Dortmund starting to make chances now. 20' Promising Dortmund attack as Piszczek gets into a great position on the right, but makes a dog's dinner of his cross, which sails straight out of play. 18' Dortmund in complete control but yet to really create much to worry the hosts. 16' Pulisic appears to be switching wings at will. He doesn't seem bound the right side in what appears to be quite a fluid system. 13' So far so good for Fürth. Very much holding their own against Lucien Favre's side. The Dortmund coach incidentally is barking instructions from the edge of his technical area. This is Lucien Favre's first game in charge of Dortmund. 10' Pulisic with the chance to run at the Fürth left-back Max Wittek for the first time, but Wittek stands up to the challenge and halts the American's run. 7' Dortmund knocking it about confidently, but Fürth defending well and not giving the Bundesliga side an easy ride. 3' Dortmund seeing a lot of the ball in the opening moments, as you'd expect. An absolutely packed house at the Sportpark Ronhof, as you'd also expect. A titanic atmosphere for what is their biggest game of the year. 1' KICK OFF: We're up and running in Fürth! 20:40 The players are out in Fürth. Almost ready to go... 20:35 Here's how the sides line up... 20:30 Welcome to live commentary of Fürth vs. Borussia Dortmund. The teams are out...