The Eagles' greatest hits compilation, called "Their Greatest Hits 1971-1975," has overtaken Michael Jackson's 1982 "Thriller" as the best-selling album of all-time in the United States, the Record Industry Association of America announced on Monday. The 1976 album, which includes rock classics such as "Take It Easy" and "Witchy Woman," has sold more than 38 million units, 5 million more than "Thriller," the RIAA said. The figures include disc and streaming sales, according to Rolling Stone magazine. "We are grateful for our families, our management, our crew, the people at radio and, most of all, the loyal fans who have stuck with us through the ups and downs of 46 years. It's been quite a ride," Don Henley, 71, the country-rock band's lead singer and co-founder, said in a statement carried by Rolling Stone. The set was overtaken by "Thriller" in 2009 after Jackson's death caused a surge in sales. The late pop star's hit album is still the best selling album worldwide, estimated to have sold 47.3 million copies. Michael Jackson's Thriller Two in the top three "Hotel California," the Eagles' 1976 album with the same name, ranked third with 26 million in sales. "Congratulations to the Eagles, who now claim the jaw-dropping feat of writing and recording two of the top three albums in music history," Cary Sherman, the chief executive of RIAA, said in a statement. "Both of these transcendent albums have impressively stood the test of time, only gaining more currency and popularity as the years have passed, much like the Eagles themselves." The RIAA is a trade organization that has been analyzing and updating music sales figures in the US. It has been awarding gold and platinum certifications for albums for 60 years. The Eagles formed in Los Angeles by Healy and Glenn Frey in 1971 and are the highest selling band in US history. They broke up in 1980, but reunited 1994 and were inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in 1998. Frey died in 2016, but the band still tours with Henley, Frey's son Deacon and country star Vince Gill. It is scheduled to start a three-month tour in the US starting on September 8. Originally a back-up singer for rock star Linda Ronstadt, Glenn Frey joined forces with Don Henley in Los Angeles in 1971 to form the band, The Eagles, which combined elements of rock, pop and country to create a unique sound. "We were two young men who made the pilgrimage to Los Angeles with the same dream, to make our mark in the music industry," said Henley. "Hotel California," released in 1976, shot the group to fame as the song went on to sell more than 20 million copies, making the Eagles the best-selling American group of all time. They subsequently had a number of hits on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, including "Heartache Tonight" and "Best of My Love," which also went on to number one. After a series of heated arguments that included guitarist Bernie Leadon pouring beer over Frey's head, The Eagles broke up in 1980. Glenn Frey went on to record solo albums that included such hits as "You Belong to the City" and "The Heat Is On," which hit number two on the Billboard charts after being heard on the "Beverly Hills Cop" movie soundtrack. Fourteen years after their unceremonious split, The Eagles came back together for their "Hell Freezes Over" tour, a humorous take on the vow they'd once made to not reunite until, well, "hell freezes over." The nearly two-year long tour was a huge success, with the accompanying live album selling more than six million copies. Glenn Frey's died in New York on Monday (18.1.2016) as a result of complications from rheumatoid arthritis, acute ulcerative colitis and pneumonia. The band announced their loss online. Co-founder Don Henley released a statement saying that Frey had been like a brother to him and the bond they forged 45 years ago was never broken, even during the time The Eagles were dissolved. Author: Courtney Tenz dv/jm (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.