The Morandi Bridge — known to locals as Genoa's "Brooklyn Bridge" — was a key artery to the Italian Riviera and to France's southern coast. A huge section of the structure collapsed on Tuesday in the Italian city of Genoa, sending cars and trucks plunging into heaps of rubble. Scores were killed and the death toll is expected to rise. Lightning strike Regional weather services had issued a storm warning for the morning of the collapse and the national police force said on Twitter the disaster happened amid a "violent cloudburst." "The fact that there was reported to be a storm at the time may or may not be particularly relevant. In addition, ongoing work on the bridge may or may not be partly responsible for the collapse," said Ian Firth, former president of the Institution of Structural Engineers. The civil protection agency could not confirm witness accounts that the bridge cracked after being hit by lighting. At least 26 people died when the bridge collapsed on Tuesday Engineering failure Two years ago Antonio Brencich, a professor specializing in reinforced concrete construction at Genoa University, called the bridge a "failure of engineering" during an interview. "That bridge is wrong. Sooner or later it will have to be replaced. I do not know when. But there will be a time when the cost of maintenance will be higher than a replacement," he told local TV station Primocanale. Aging infrastructure The Morandi Bridge— named after its designer Riccardo Morandi— was built in 1967. Italy's CNR civil engineering society pointed out on Tuesday that the working lifespan of bridges built in the 1950s and '60s was some 50 years. Tens of thousands were built during those decades using reinforced concrete, the best known technology at the time. Hundreds of firefighters and emergency officials were searching for survivors in the rubble with heavy equipment Corrosion and fatigue Mehdi Kashani, an associate professor in structural mechanics at Britain's University of Southampton, said maintenance issues and pressure from "dynamic loads" such as traffic and wind could have resulted in "fatigue damage in bridge components." "As this reinforced and pre-stressed concrete bridge has been there for 50 years, it is possible that corrosion of tendons or reinforcement may be a contributory factor," said Firth. Comments made by CNR suggest the bridge should have reached the end of its 50-year lifespan around last year. The bridge was undergoing reinforcement work at the time of the collapse and was under constant monitoring. New investments The cost of updating and reinforcing '50s and '60s bridges is more than it would cost to destroy and rebuild them, CNR said. As such, it called for a major program to replace most of the bridges with new ones which would have a lifespan of 100 years. Tuesday's tragedy will likely reopen a debate on the need to invest billions on major infrastructure projects. Within hours of the bridge collapse, the country's government said it showed Italy needed to spend more to improve its dilapidated infrastructure, ignoring EU budget constraints if necessary. "We should ask ourselves whether respecting these (budget) limits is more important than the safety of Italian citizens. Obviously for me it is not," said Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, who is also leader of the nationalist League party in a power-sharing government. Whatever the cause of the collapse, Salvini said he wanted the names of those to blame because a tragedy like this in 2018 was not acceptable. "They will have to pay, pay for everything, and pay a lot," he said. The Qingshui suspension bridge will be 1,332 feet (406m) high and 3,710 feet (1,130m) long. The only bridge taller than it will be the Sidu River Bridge in Hubei province, also in China. It has a height of 1,627feet (496m). The Qingshui Bridge will cut the driving distance from Guiyang to Weng'an county from 100 miles (160 km) to 23 miles. The Qinghui Bridge cost 239 million dollars (216 million euros) and took two years to build. It will greatly improve transportation links between the provincial capital of Guiyang and neighboring counties. Another spectacular bridge is this one: the longest combined road and rail bridge in Europe, connecting Copenhagen in Denmark and the Swedish city of Malmö. The Öresund bridge runs nearly 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the Swedish coast to the artificial island of Peberholm in Denmark. The Bosphorus bridge in Istanbul, Turkey, connects Europe with Asia and soars to a height of 165 m (541 ft). This suspension bridge was competed in 1973. Every October, the annual Intercontinental Istanbul Eurasia Marathon crosses the bridge on its way from Asia to Europe. During the marathon, the bridge is closed to vehicle traffic. It is the largest pedestrian overpass in Iran. The 270 meter (890 ft) bridge connects two public parks by spanning the Shahid Modares, one of the main highways in northern Tehran. The word "tabiat" means "nature" in the Persian language. The bridge has won several awards. The Verrazano Narrows Bridge connects the New York City boroughs of Brooklyn and Staten Island. The bridge is named after the Florentine explorer, Giovanni da Verrazzano, whose name is misspelled on the bridge. Verrazzano was the first European to sail into New York Bay and the Hudson River in the early 16th century. When thinking of bridges, one, in particular, stands out as iconic: At 1,280 meters long and 227 meters high, the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco may not be the longest or highest, but it is certainly one of the most majestic. It spans the mouth of San Francisco Bay, connecting the city to Marin County to the north. Author: Rey Azizi kw/rc (AP, DPA, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.