Emmerson Mnangagwa was inaugurated as Zimbabwe's president in his own right on Sunday, days after the Constitutional Court dismissed the main opposition's claim that his July 30 election win was rigged. Mnangagwa previously held a series of cabinet portfolios under Robert Mugabe's presidency. He went on to replace Mugabe nine months ago, after the strongman resigned under military pressure. Read more: Zimbabwe court upholds presidential election results How the ceremony unfolded Read more: Zimbabweans hope for economic recovery ahead of court ruling on election outcome Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32f6P Opposition leader defiant Chamisa, Zimbabwe's main opposition leader, rejected the court ruling, and ahead of Sunday's inauguration described it as "false." He promised to step up peaceful protests against Mnangagwa's rule. US election observers reacted to Friday's court ruling by calling on "all sides to rely on peaceful expression and to avoid acts or threats of retribution against political rivals." Religious leader Andrew Wutawunashe, who gave the blessing before the oath of office, appealed to US President Donald Trump to lift sanctions against Zimbabwe and its leader. "We are saying to you ... we have at last found a man who can make our small nation a great nation. Please help him." Read more: Zimbabwe: Deadly clashes erupt over election 'results manipulation' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/327xY Much to attend to: Mnangagwa, who is backed by the country's military, now faces the mammoth task of rebuilding an economy that remains in a depression after years of mismanagement and hyperinflation. Deadly protests following the July election demonstrate the urgent need to unite a nation that had hoped that the post-Mugabe era would deliver change. Election violence and arrests Despite the opposition claiming election fraud, Western election observers noted few issues around the peaceful vote. But they did express concern about "excessive use of force" two days later, when six people were killed as the military swept into the capital to disperse protests. Several opposition supporters were arrested in the days after the vote. mm/aw (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.