Acclaimed British director Danny Boyle has pulled out of the latest James Bond movie due to "creative differences," the producers of the multimillion-dollar film franchise said on Tuesday. Beyond the brief statement on the official 007 website and Twitter account, the production did not reveal who would replace the Oscar-winning Slumdog Millionaire and Trainspotting director. Before Boyle was hired, producers were said to have demonstrated interest in Scottish director David Mackenzie (Hell or High Water) and Denis Villeneuve (Blade Runner 2049). Boyle's exit follows speculation over who will replace lead actor Daniel Craig. The upcoming movie, which is set for release in the autumn of next year, is expected to be Craig's last stint as the legendary British spy created by author Ian Fleming in 1953. The actor previously embodied agent 007 in Casino Royale, Quantum of Solace, Skyfall and Spectre. Idris Elba (shown here in the film adaptation of Stephen King's The Dark Tower) is used to weapons and action — definitely useful skills with which to shine as agent 007. That would make the London-born star the first black actor to depict the character in the 55-year history of James Bond movies. Portrayed by Scottish actor Sean Connery, the secret agent first appeared on the big screen in 1962. Films then were already rich in action scenes, but 007 was also a figure with major sex appeal. HIV and #MeToo were still ages away, and Bond was proud to be a womanizing misogynist back then. Connery is shown here with Honor Blackman as Bond girl Pussy Galore in Goldfinger (1964). When Connery got tired of the secret agent gig, the Australian George Lazenby replaced him. He played 007 once only though, in the film On Her Majesty's Secret Service (1969). Producers and moviegoers weren't charmed by the former model, so a then-record salary was paid to lure Sean Connery back into the role for Diamonds are Forever (1971). The investment paid off extremely well. Good-looking, spiced up with a pinch of irony: Roger Moore, the first British-born James Bond actor, was particularly popular. No one took on the role more often: seven times, from 1973 (Live and Let Die) to 1985 (A View to a Kill). Here he is fighting "Jaws" in The Spy Who Loved Me (1977). Many critics felt the way the Welsh-born theater actor Timothy Dalton interpreted Bond was the most faithful to the character in Ian Fleming's novels. The Living Daylights (1987) and Licence to Kill (1989) were also box office hits. Producers were therefore eager to keep Dalton in the role — but he preferred to leave. Shaken, not stirred — that's how Pierce Brosnan's Bond took his martinis too. The Irish actor had actually been offered the role before Timothy Dalton took it on, but before he could become the legendary agent, Brosnan was contractually required to return to the TV series Remington Steele. He embodied 007 four times, including in this last film, Die Another Day (2002). Daniel Craig was a controversial pick when he first appeared as the new Bond in 2005. The fans found him unimpressive — and too blond. The critiques for Casino Royale (2006, pictured) were nevertheless positive. Craig's fifth — and possibly last — 007 film is to be released in cinemas in 2019. Author: Katharina Abel (eg) While British actor Idris Elba's name has been circulating for months — even years — fresh rumors emerged two weeks ago following reports that producer Barbara Broccoli said it was now "time" for a black actor to take the role. The son of West African immigrants also fueled the speculation he could become the future Bond through a cryptic tweet. "My name's Elba, Idris Elba," he tweeted, echoing the super spy's famous catchline, "The name is Bond, James Bond." Known by TV series fans for his impressive performance in the drugs drama The Wire and his Golden Globe-winning role as a murder detective in Luther, Elba then went on to star in blockbusters such as Thor, Pacific Rim and Star Trek. He was nominated for a Golden Globe for the title role in Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom. However, asked on Tuesday at the London red carpet premiere of the crime movie Yardie, which Elba directed, whether he was going to be the next James Bond, the star told TV reporters, "No." He also admitted causing the latest speculation. "Apparently I did by telling people my name. Amazing, isn't it?." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31LqU eg/rf (AFP, Reuters)