The director of the Buchenwald concentration camp memorial site on Thursday told German radio station Deutschlandfunk that the site would no longer work with members of Germany's far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party. Volkhard Knigge's comment came one day after AfD politician Stephen Brandner visited the Buchenwald memorial, where Knigge had hoped he would shed light on the far-right party's attacks on Holocaust remembrance. Read more: AfD: What you need to know about Germany's far-right party "It makes absolutely no sense to talk to representatives of the AfD," Knigge told Deutschlandfunk, adding that Brandner had not been able to clarify the views of some of his colleagues' regarding historical revisionism and anti-democratic positions. Volkhard Knigge's comment came one day after AfD politician Stephen Brandner visited the Buchenwald memorial. Trivializing statements The meeting had been organized at Brandner's request because he "wanted to know how the foundation, which receives tax money, works." But in a statement on Wednesday, the Buchenwald and Mittelbau-Dora Memorials Foundation said Brandner had trivialized anti-Semitic statements made by some AfD members, describing them as short-term lapses by a few individuals. "In this context, we couldn't hold a conversation about the work of the foundation," the foundation said in a statement Wednesday. AfD's controversial comments A number of AfD members have come under fire for their comments about Germany's Nazi past. In June, AfD leader Alexander Gauland, described the Nazi era as "just bird shit in more than 1,000 years of successful German history." Read more: Nazi 'bird shit' and the limits of free speech in Germany Last year, the AfD's leader in the state on Thuringia, Björn Höcke, called for a "180-degree reversal" to Germany's politics of Holocaust remembrance and described the Holocaust Memorial in Berlin a "monument of shame." Höcke's comments led the Buchenwald Memorial Foundation to refuse him a visit to the memorial site. law/amp (AFP, dpa) In a way, the market place is the parlor of Weimar, a meeting place for locals and tourists. Here you find the Renaissance era Stadthaus (right) and the Elephant Hotel, where all the city's famous guests have always stayed. The city Castle (Schloss Weimar) served as the residence of the Dukes of Saxony-Weimar. At the end of the 18th century, Duke Carl-August and his mother Anna Amalia ensured Weimar's rise to a center of German culture and intellectual exchange. Today the city castle houses the ducal art collection and is part of the UNESCO World Heritage "Classical Weimar" site. The aspiring poet Johann Wolfgang Goethe came to Weimar in 1775 at the invitation of Duke Carl-August. The Duke left him the garden house in the Park an der Ilm to live and work in. Later Goethe moved to the more spacious house on Frauenplan, which is now also a museum. Because Goethe gave him an apartment and the Duke gave him better pay, Friedrich Schiller moved to Weimar in 1799. The second floor, the mansard, served as the writer’s working and living rooms, which are now a museum. With the exception of "The Maid of Orleans", all of Schiller's late dramas were performed at the Weimar Hoftheater – which is today the German National Theater. The Rococo hall is a magnificent location for classic books to be kept. The library was one of the first public book collections of a prince. Schiller and Goethe also worked here, the latter serving as library director for many years. Today it sees itself as a research library with a focus on German literature around 1800. In the German National Theater, which Goethe managed from 1791 when it was called the Hoftheater, political history was also written: in 1919 the National Assembly of the First German Republic met here. Today, the National Theater and Staatskapelle Weimar offer opera, drama and concerts, from classical to contemporary works. A monumental memorial site on the Ettersberg near Weimar commemorates the atrocities committed by Nazi Germany. The Buchenwald concentration camp was established on the site in 1937. It was one of the largest camps in Germany. Here 56,000 people died of torture, medical experiments or emaciation. Walter Gropius, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Lionel Feininger and many other well-known artists founded the Bauhaus in Weimar in 1919. The revolutionary school of architecture set the style for the 20th century. Next year Weimar will celebrate the 100th birthday of the Bauhaus. Author: Kerstin Schmidt (sbc)