The electoral commission announced the presidential election results province by province late on Thursday night and declared Mnangagwa president shortly after midnight with 2.46 million votes against 2.15 million for his rival Nelson Chamisa. Mnangagwa led Chamisa by some 230,000 votes after nine of the ten provinces had been declared. Mnangagwa had 53 percent or 2.15 million votes counted over Chamisa's 47 percent or 1.92 million votes. After the first four of ten provincial results, Chamisa's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) had a lead of about 50,000 votes over the ruling ZANU-PF but after the fifth province was announced, the lead had switched to Mnangagwa. When the final province was reported, Mnangagwa's share of the vote was declared at 50.8 percent by the electoral commission. Chamisa's share was 44.3 percent of the total vote. Electoral commission officials announced the results in Harare To become president, a candidate has to take more than 50 percent of the vote. Chamisa did well in urban areas but Mnangagwa outperformed him in rural zones. The announcement came after clashes between opposition protesters and soldiers in Harare left at least six people dead. The unrest marred what had been billed as an important milestone in Zimbabwe's efforts to return to democracy following 37 years of repression under longtime leader Robert Mugabe. Chamisa said police raided opposition headquarters in Harare and seized computers. The search warrant indicated they were looking for unlicenced firearms, grenades and stones. Police said 16 people in the offices were arrested. Read more: Seven takeaways from the Zimbabwe elections Supporters of the MDC burn a ZANU-PF party campaign banner in Harare Results announced by the electoral commission: Read more: Zimbabwe's 'crocodile' Mnangagwa is no beacon of hope Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32TZV Call for calm Emmerson Mnangagwa called for an independent investigation into the deadly unrest in Harare and said that he had spoken with opposition leader Nelson Chamisa to try to defuse tension. "We must maintain this dialogue in order to protect the peace we hold dear," he wrote Thursday on Twitter. "Together we must lead by example and show all Zimbabweans that peace is paramount." Late Wednesday, Chamisa, 40, said the presidential results were bound to be fraudulent, telling his supporters: "We have won this one together. No amount of results manipulation will alter your will." Elmar Brok, chief observer for the EU's election monitor mission in Zimbabwe, told DW that the vote was marred by a "lot of shortcomings in favor of the ruling party," including through "financing, state media, intimidation, especially in the countryside." Zimbabwe Electoral Commission chairwoman Priscilla Chigumba denied allegations of bias and strongly disputed accusations of rigging. Read more: Deadly clashes erupt over election 'results manipulation' On July 30, Zimbabwe held its first presidential election since autocratic ruler Robert Mugabe (pictured casting his vote) was forced to step down following a brief military takeover in November last year. Many hoped the vote would usher in a new, peaceful and democratic era in the African country after years of repression under Mugabe, who ruled the country from 1980 to 2017. The controversial vote, which EU observers criticized for an "un-level playing field and lack of trust" in the run up to the election, saw the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front (ZANU–PF) secure the most seats in the country's parliament. But fraud claims and a delay in issuing official results sparked violent protests in the country. Supporters of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party took to the streets after the partial results were announced on August 1. MDC activists claimed their leader Nelson Chamisa had won the July 30 vote and that they were cheated in the election count. The government deployed the army to quell the protests in the capital Harare. President Emmerson Mnangagwa (pictured above), who assumed power in November with the help from the military, held the MDC leadership responsible for the post-election violence. He said his government "went out of its way" to ensure the elections were peaceful. Interior Minister Obert Mpofu warned the opposition that it was "making a big mistake" by "testing our resolve." 75-year-old Mnangagwa was Mugabe's former right-hand man and was the clear front-runner in the presidential election, partly due to the powerful military's backing. 40-year-old Chamisa, who is a lawyer and pastor, performed well on the campaign trail and enjoyed support from the country's youth and urban voters. EU election observers said the vote was "advantageous for the ruling party." But chief observer Elmar Brok also noted that while the election witnessed several irregularities, the electoral process exhibited significant progress compared with the 2013 and 2008 votes. Former colonial power Britain urged all parties to show "calm and restraint" and "take responsibility… at this critical moment." A credible vote and a peaceful transfer of power are essential to bringing foreign investments to Zimbabwe, whose economy has been in a shambles for several years. Under Mugabe's 37-year reign, elections were often marred by fraud and violence and economic growth was stalled. The election had offered hope that the country would finally begin a new democratic era. Author: Shamil Shams Turning the page: This week's elections were seen as an important step in Zimbabwe's efforts to break with the repressive rule of Robert Mugabe, who was ousted from power last year. Despite reports that the vote had gone off peacefully, international observers voiced concerns about irregularities and a lack of trust in the polling process. Officials also criticized the delay in announcing the results of the presidential race, saying it had undermined the vote's credibility. There is now the challenging task of uniting the country and reviving an economy that's been badly battered after years of international isolation. Read more: Zimbabwe election unlikely to solve country's economic woes Post-Mugabe vote: Under former President Robert Mugabe, 94, the country went from being a prosperous economy to a pariah state wrecked by mismanagement and corruption. Elections during his rule were largely marked by repression and fraud allegations. His successor, Emmerson Mnangagwa, had promised a free and fair vote, inviting EU observers for the first time since 2002. Who is Emmerson Mnangagwa? Mugabe's former deputy president and right-hand man was the clear favorite to win the presidential race. Sometimes dubbed "the crocodile" for his ruthlessness during his years as Mugabe's state security chief, Mnangagwa has tried to cast himself as a forward-looking reformer. Following independence in 1980, he allegedly was partially responsible for a brutal crackdown on opposition supporters that claimed thousands of lives in Matabeleland. The ZANU-PF veteran was also allegedly involved in deadly violence against the opposition during the 2008 elections. nm,jm/rc (Reuters, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.