A live speech by Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro at a military event on Saturday was abruptly cut short after an apparent explosion. Drones loaded with explosives detonated close to the event, Venezuelan Information Minister Jorge Rodriguez said, describing it as an "attack" against the leftist leader. Maduro and the rest of the government escaped unharmed, he said, adding that seven National Guard soldiers were injured. Russia, Turkey and Spain issued statements condemning the apparent attack, saying they stood in support of Maduro and the people of Venezuela. The Russian Foreign Ministry said "the use of terrorist methods is categorically unacceptable as instruments of political struggle." Read more: 5 things to understand about oil-rich, cash-poor Venezuela Several security members were injured in the apparent attack Far-right plot claim Addressing Venezuelans after the incident, Maduro blamed far-right factions for the incident. "This was an attempt to kill me. Today they attempted to assassinate me," he said, adding that evidence gathered so far "points to the far right." Maduro said he believed far-right wing factions within Venezuela, working in collaboration with conspirators in Miami and Bogota, were also responsible — including Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos. Colombia's foreign ministry denied the government was involved, saying such allegations were "absurd" and "lacked any foundations." Likewise, John Bolton, the US national security adviser, maintained there was "no US government involvement." He even suggested that the blasts may have been "a pretext set up by the regime itself." Read more: Can Germany be a new home for young Venezuelans? Firefighters cast doubt But the Associated Press news agency has reported that firefighters at the scene of the explosion have disputed the government's version of events. The incident was actually a gas tank explosion inside an apartment, the news agency reported, citing three officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32POy A mysterious rebel group calling itself the "National Movement of Soldiers in T-Shirts" later claimed responsibility for the attack. In a statement passed to US-based opposition journalist Patricia Poleo, the group criticized the government for making "public office an obscene way to get rich." Its claim could not be verified. Critics warn that the government is exploiting the blast to crackdown on political opponents. "We warn that the government is taking advantage of this incident ... to criminalize those who legitimately and democratically oppose it and deepen the repression and systematic human rights violations," wrote the Broad Front opposition coalition in a statement published on Twitter. Troubled times Venezuela is suffering from a severe recession that has sparked malnutrition, hyperinflation and mass emigration. Opponents blame Maduro for destroying a once-wealthy economy and accuse him of authoritarianism. Last year, police officer Oscar Perez hijacked a helicopter and fired at government buildings in what he said was an action against a dictator. Perez was killed by Venezuelan forces after more thansix months on the run. bik,tj,ap/cmk (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term on May 20 with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to the election body. However, the MUD opposition alliance, which boycotted the vote, put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States called the elections neither free nor fair. Author: Kathleen Schuster