The northern German city of Hamburg has listed 50 former refugee houses on eBay classifieds for €1,000 ($1,140) a pop, according to a report by daily Süddeutsche Zeitung. The city purchased the temporary wooden houses in 2015 at the height of the European migrant crisis, but they are no longer needed. The structures received overwhelming interest and the ad was taken down on Thursday afternoon, just 48 hours after it went up. Read more: Germany's empty refugee shelters: Sensible backup, or waste of money? "The response on the first day was enormous, we had around 100 inquiries," said Daniel Posselt, spokesman for the Central Coordination Unit for Refugees. "There was interest from all over Germany." The advertisement said the 28-square-meter (301-square-foot) wooden buildings could be used as a guesthouse, workshop, sports and play house or yoga studio. The original price of the tiny homes when they were built was €23,000 per unit. "All interested parties will receive an answer, but that can take some time," the authority tweeted. They say the best things come in small packages: Wrapped in grass and immersed in nature, this little home is a case in point. Made from materials found in the ground and the nearby forest, it took just four months to assemble. Its ground, walls and roof are insulated with straw bales, and it is dug into the hillside to minimize visual impact and provide maximum shelter. For anyone who likes to be lulled to sleep by the sound of gently lapping water, boat living is the near-perfect solution. It used to be that those seeking life on the watery fringes of society could be found cruising Europe's canals on brightly colored barges. But in more recent years, the continent's waterways have played host to homely vessels of more varied shapes, sizes - and price points. Travelers have lived in circus-style caravans for many generations. And as awareness of the carbon footprint of living increases, people are also exploring alternatives that draw from older traditions. Not only do circus wagons offer an immediate connection to nature, they are also eminently more transportable than bricks and mortar. When the housing market in Berlin began to buckle under the weight of ever-increasing demand, a local construction and housing expert came up with an innovative solution: He decided to build an entire village of student accommodation from old containers. Located in a leafy part of the city, it embodies the essence of trendy industrial cool. The HomeBox is tall and slim - perfect for those who want to combine an elegant, natural looking exterior with the desire to scale back and live small. Dimensions of the box are much the same as those of a shipping container - the difference is that it stands vertically rather than horizontally. Spread over three floors, the interior is designed to cater to all the needs of modern accommodation. Whether made from metal, wood, or some other material, tree houses are also staking their claim in the eco-friendly small-house market. Their popularity has grown so much in recent years that Europe's forests have begun to witness the emergence of tree house hostels and holiday homes. These offer a chance to commune with nature from a nearly bird-like perspective. A product of German designers, the LoftCube can be placed on top of other buildings, at the seaside, in a field or pretty much anywhere with a bit of space - and we're not talking much square footage. These environmentally friendly homes are diminutive, light-filled, and oh-so-stylish to boot. Traditionally used for potting or even sulking, garden sheds have come a long way in recent years. They are now available in so many shapes, colors and sizes that they can provide sufficient and eco-friendly accommodation for those with a modest budget, modest requirements and small plot of land. Author: Tamsin Walker Hefty transport cost The three-year-old houses were part of a housing facility in the Jenfelder Moorpark, but Hamburg's refugee arrivals have dropped from more than 10,000 per month in 2015 to about 400, meaning the accommodation is no longer needed. They are weather and winter-proof with the usual signs of wear, but are well insulated and equipped with heating, a hot water supply and electricity. "This is not at all a shack," Posselt said. Read more: A treehouse built for grown-ups While the minimum bid for a house was €1,000, the sale came with two requirements: Buyers were required to have a building permit ,and the structures were pick-up only. Moving the wooden buildings requires a heavy load transporter with a large crane. Transport within Hamburg is estimated to cost between  €3,000 to €5,000, Posselt said. "That will put off many private individuals who want a nicer garden house," he added. Humble homes Among the interested parties is one church parish, which is interested in taking 20 of the houses and continuing to use them to accommodate refugees. Meanwhile, a company is considering buying 10 for its construction workers. Social worker Stephan Karrenbauer from street magazine Hinz und Kunzt said he hopes people without a permanent address could also be accommodated in the houses. Read more: A brief guide to German garden colonies "If they give us the space we need, we could immediately put homeless people in the wooden houses," Karrenbauer said. According to Karrenbauer, the costs of buying and erecting 10 houses can certainly be found. "People in Hamburg who own an unused hall they can provide for this purpose are welcome to contact me." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2odAJ