The US will cut all funding to the UN agency serving Palestinian refugees, the State Department said Friday, calling the organization that serves 5 million people "irredeemably flawed." Washington will no longer make additional contributions because the United Nations Relief and Works Agency's (UNRWA) "endlessly and exponentially expanding community of entitled beneficiaries is simply unsustainable and has been in crisis mode for many years," State Department spokesperson Heather Nauert said in a statement. The US is the largest donor to UNRWA, providing about 30 percent of its budget. Last year, Washington donated $355 million (€305 million) to UNRWA, but the Trump administration slashed its contribution, providing only $60 million this year. Read more: US State Department cuts over $200 million in aid to Palestinians UNRWA has said it will struggle to provide services to about 5 million Palestinian refugees if a more than $200 million funding gap is not filled. Germany, the Gulf Arab states and others have pledged to increase their donations, but it is unclear if it is enough to sustain all of UNRWA's services. The UN agency was formed to provide services to Palestinians refugees displaced by the formation of Israel in 1948. It provides health care, education and social services  to Palestinians in Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Read more: 70 years of Nakba: The ongoing struggle of Palestinian refugees United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007 US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." Author: Aasim Saleem Redefining refugees The Trump administration is seeking to pressure the UN agency over how it defines Palestinian refugees. UNRWA includes the descendents of those displaced by Israel, something that the US wants to take off the table in any Israel-Palestine peace deal. Palestinians have refused to engage with the Trump administration since the US recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital earlier this year. Palestinians want East Jerusalem as the capital of any future independent state. 'Not part of the solution' A spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas described the American move to cut UNRWA funding as the latest "flagrant assault" against Palestinian people. "The consecutive American decisions represent a flagrant assault against the Palestinian people and a defiance of UN resolutions," said spokesman Nabil Abu Rdainah. "Such a punishment will not succeed to change the fact that the United States no longer has a role in the region and that it is not a part of the solution." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2r7bi Palestinians have long demanded a right to return to their homes as part of any Middle East peace agreement. It remains unclear what would happen to millions of stateless Palestinians in the region if UNRWA cut or redefined their refugee status. "Trump's attempts to use coercive diplomacy will fail as long as he cannot mobilize an extensive supportive international alliance. On UNRWA he is clearly swimming upstream and almost alone," Ofer Zalzberg, the International Crisis Group's Senior Middle East Analyst, wrote on Twitter. cw/aw (AFP, AP, Reuters)