At least three people were killed in Harare on Wednesday as anti-government protesters clashed with security forces over the results of the Monday vote. Reporters at the scene saw armored vehicles and helicopters deployed in Zimbabwe's capital, as protesters fled from soldiers firing live rounds. By Wednesday evening, police had declared a ban on public gatherings. The army was set to stay on the streets until "this situation is over," authorities said. Earlier, protesters had taken to the streets to urge the authorities to release the official presidential election results. In response, police fired water cannon and tear gas at the protesters, urging them to disband. Protesters had blocked some roads, burned tires and chanted slogans against the ruling ZANU-PF party. Police then asked the military for help as they were "unable to cope," according to police spokeswoman Charity Charamba's statement to the ZBC state broadcaster, with soldiers eventually opening fire. Home Affairs Minister Obert Mpofu said the opposition for using the presence of international observers to "grandstand" and cause "anarchy." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32TZV Police acting like 'a headless chicken' While the police confirmed that three people had been shot and killed so far, the death toll could rise. Eddie Cross of Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) told DW that deploying the military to disperse protesters was an "overreaction" by the interim government. "Police are a headless chicken," Cross said, referring to the lack of leadership in the country's law enforcement body. "Young people may not take this lying down." 'Deeply concerned' Incumbent President Emmerson Mnangagwa urged local leaders to promote peace as "this day that ended in tragedy comes to a close." Earlier, he had accused the opposition of being "responsible for this disturbance of national peace," adding that the government "went out of its way" to try to ensure the elections were peaceful. Read more: Zimbabwe voters await results of close presidential election The US Embassy said it was "deeply concerned" by the use of deadly force against protesters, calling on Zimbabwean forces to show restraint. "We urge leaders of all parties to call for calm," the US Embassy said. "We further urge the Defense Forces of Zimbabwe to use restraint in dispersing protesters." The UK, a former colonial power in Zimbabwe, also called for "calm and restraint." Armed riot police patrolled the streets of Harare. Authorities said their presence was aimed at ensuring public safety Opposition claims victory Zimbabwe's electoral commission have so far announced only partial parliamentary election results, saying ZANU-PF had received a majority of seats. However, opposition politicians accused the body of dragging its feet in declaring the results of the presidential vote. Opposition presidential candidate Nelson Chamisa of the MDC claimed victory in a tweet, saying: "We have won the popular vote." "You voted for total change in this past election! We have won this one together. No amount of results manipulation will alter your will." Western election observers also called for the results of the presidential election to be released as soon as possible in order to reduce tensions. The electoral commission has a five-day deadline to publish the results, starting with the vote on Monday. They said that "sometime tomorrow," on Thursday, they would tell the public when the results would be published. Read more: Africa in 2018: The old generation remains at the helm Vote marred by 'shortcomings'   (EN):   Zimbabwe: Deadly... Monday's parliamentary and presidential elections marked the first democratic process since former President Robert Mugabe stepped down in November 2017. The incumbent Emmerson Mnangagwa took the office with the support of the nation's military. Elmar Brok, chief observer for the EU's election monitor mission in Zimbabwe, told DW that the vote was marred by a "lot of shortcomings in favor of the ruling party," including through "financing, state media, intimidation, especially in the countryside." Read more: Zimbabwe elections: Seven takeaways But Brok noted that while the vote witnessed several irregularities, the electoral process exhibited significant progress compared with the 2013 and 2008 votes. He said that the EU monitoring mission would wait for results before further commenting on the situation. In November, Robert Mugabe dismissed his vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, after accusing him of "plotting a coup against the government." Some Zimbabweans feared Mugabe was grooming his wife, Grace Mugabe, to take over in the event of his death. On November 13, 2017, General Constantino Chiwenga, commander of Zimbabwe's Defense Force, warned that the army could "step in" to save the country from political tension and economic crisis. Military and armored vehicles were seen at the outskirts of Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, on November 14, 2017. On the same day, the military also took over the state-run broadcaster ZBC. On November 15, 2017, Major General SB Moyo, the military spokesman, announced on the ZBC that Mugabe and his family were "safe and sound and their security was guaranteed." He said the military was targeting "criminals around" Mugabe who were "committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering." On November 16, 2017, General Constantino Chiwenga, along with other officials, was seen in military uniform meeting President Robert Mugabe (C) at the State House. It was reported that Mugabe was smiling as they both shook hands. However, the leaders of ZANU-PF announced that there was "no going back." After being placed under house arrest, Mugabe appeared publicly at a university graduation ceremony on November 17, 2017. Here, a military officer adjusts a chair for Mugabe, who is dressed in a blue-and-yellow academic gown, to sit on after arriving to preside over the ceremony. Mugabe, who was reportedly tired, was then caught falling asleep. On November 18, 2017, residents of the capital, Harare, held a protest with anti-Mugabe placards demanding the president's resignation. Veterans of the independence war, activists and ruling party leaders called publicly for Mugabe to be forced from office. Zimbabwean War Veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa (R) arrived at a meeting of the ruling ZANU-PF party in Harare November 19, 2017. After hours of deliberation, the party announced that it had decided to fire Mugabe as leader of the party. Many expected that after being recalled as ZANU-PF party leader, President Mugabe would use his address to the nation resign with dignity. Zimbabweans were left shocked after the rambling speech made no reference to him stepping down. Mugabe now faces impeachment, with proceedings believed to be starting on Tuesday. Rather than face impeachment proceedings, Robert Mugabe prompted dancing in the streets of Harare when he resigned on November 22. "My decision to resign is voluntary on my part and arises from my concern for the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and my desire for a smooth, non-violent transfer of power," the 93-year-old said in a letter. Supporters of Emmerson Mnangagwa celebrate the end of four decades under Mugabe. Mnangagwa was joined by cheering crowds after he returned to Zimbabwe from exile in neighboring South Africa. He is expected to be sworn in on November 24. Author: Merga Yonas Bula ls,dj/rc (Reuters, AP, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.