Police in Berlin said on Tuesday that letters containing an unknown white powder were mailed to the embassies of the United States and Israel in the German capital last month. The letters have since been analyzed by experts who concluded the substance was harmless, said police spokeswoman Heidi Vogt. The first letter was sent to the Israeli embassy on July 24, according to police spokeswoman Kerstin Usmer. The second was sent to the US embassy two days later, she said. The same person is suspected of sending both letters and is the subject of two ongoing investigations. Other diplomatic missions for European and Asian countries reported getting similar mail. US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany. "Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time. "The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting. "As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone. "I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution. "Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March 2017. "The people of Germany are turning against their leadership as migration is rocking the already tenuous Berlin coalition," Trump tweeted in the midst of a row within the German goverment. He went on to claim that: "Crime in Germany is way up. Big mistake made all over Europe in allowing millions of people in who have so strongly and violently changed their culture!" Author: Lewis Sanders IV Unidentified powder mailed to German courthouses Last year, several courthouses around Germany said they had received envelopes containing a suspicious powder. Several weeks later, the headquarters of the Borussia Dortmund soccer team was evacuated after an envelope containing white powder was discovered. A dubious-looking package was also sent to Real Madrid's president Florentino Perez. Letters with white powder and razor 
blades  were sent to Chancellor Angela Merkel and other politicians just before last September's German elections. kw/rc (AP, DPA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 