By its nature, the German Cup first round does not leave much room for surprises. The highest-ranked participants, namely Bundesliga teams and the top 14 teams in the second division, do not face each other in the first round. Instead, they travel to the grounds of lower division sides. However, not every Bundesliga side manages to escape the first round. Augsburg and Hamburg exited last year's competition early after losses to Magdeburg and Osnabrück. Leipzig and Werder Bremen were victims of a similar fate the season before. With that in mind, here are some potential traps for Bundesliga teams in this year's German Cup. Greuther Fürth over Borussia Dortmund This upset may seem far fetched considering Dortmund has not lost a first-round German Cup tie since 2005. But BVB has struggled against second division sides in the recent past — four of their last seven cup victories against second-tier sides have required either extra time or penalties. Greuther Fürth has four points in their first two games and one of the more potent attacks in the 2. Bundesliga. If Dortmund doesn't bring its A-game in their first competitive match of the season, they might be set for an early exit. Viktoria Köln over RB Leipzig RB Leipzig have had a hectic start to 2018-19 The Red Bulls are clear favorites over the fourth-division side, but their schedule thus far has been rather intense. They will have played four Europa League games and traveled to two different countries by Sunday's cup game in Cologne. Viktoria Köln has been a contender for promotion out of the Regionalliga West each of the past five years, so they may pose a tougher test than expected. Leipzig are also familiar with first round upsets — they lost to Dynamo Dresden in the first round two years ago. Energie Cottbus over Freiburg When German Cup upsets have occurred in recent years, third division sides were often involved. Back in the third tier after a spell in the regional leagues, former top flight outfit Cottbus have picked up seven points in their first four games and are tied with Preussen Münster for the most goals in the division. However, Cottbus have four straight losses to top division sides in the German Cup, although they came close to upsetting Stuttgart last season before losing on penalties. Freiburg, who narrowly avoided relegation last year, have one of the longest journeys of all the sides in action. Their hosts could greet their travel-weary guests with a barrage of firepower led by striker Streli Mamba — tied for second top scorer in the 3. Liga with three goals — en route to their first second-round cup berth in eight years. Erzgebirge Aue over Mainz Mainz don't have a great record in the German Cup Even when they perform well in the league, Mainz are not a very good cup team. They made an exception last term with a run to the quarterfinals, but had failed to advance past the second round in the five seasons prior to that. Aue has been a solid cup team at home, winning three of their last five cup games as hosts. They have yet to score this season in two league games, but given Mainz's tendency to concede — they have not kept a clean sheet in the German Cup in three years — the second division side may be able to sneak a goal or two, and maybe even a victory. Ringo Starr's famous melody is admittedly simple — after all, he was never very good at singing. But neither are most football fans. The singable chorus from "Yellow Submarine" is perfect for the stadium and the text can easily be adapted to suit the match. This song has been around for nearly 90 years, but first became a fan anthem at the 2002 World Cup in South Korea. The band Rocca became a one-hit-wonder with the melody from the Cuban classic. Most people only remember the refrain, however: "There's only one Rudi Völler," referring to the German soccer legend. Fans sang it so often that the line was named sentence of the year in 2002. This hit by Italian Domenico Modugno, which was supposed to be about the blue sky above Rome, was misappropriated because the word "volare" from the chorus rhymed too well with "finale." The chorus is usually whipped out when a team makes it into the final. This stadium anthem has been successful in many different clubs and countries because it's so suited to modification. While Borussia Dortmund screams "Ole, jetzt kommt der BVB" (Ole, now the BVB is coming), London's FC Arsenal uses the text, "One-nil to the Arsenal." While teams may be arch enemies on the pitch, at least some of them have "Go West" in common. "You'll Never Walk Alone," which originally came from a Rogers and Hammerstein musical, is a more solemn football anthem. And perhaps that's why it's been around so long. Unlike other soccer songs, its text is very important. First adopted in Liverpool in the 1960s, it is now sung in stadiums all over the world and is practically inseparable from soccer itself. Author: Antje Binder (kbm)