Thousands of people rallied in the Macedonian capital of Skopje on Sunday, waving flags and chanting "We are Macedonians" to demand that the government halt talks with Greece over the decades-long naming dispute. Protesters gathered under the statue of Hellenic ruler Alexander the Great in Skopje's main town square as part of the "We are the Macedonia" demonstration. Read more: Macedonia: What's in a name? "We are here because questions about the name, the identity, the constitution (and) language are issues over which we must adopt a (strong) position," rally organizer Evica Stojanova-Kamberova told the crowd. As well as Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the geographic region of Macedonia extends into Albania, Bulgaria and Serbia as well as small areas of Kosovo (which you can't quite see here). The ancient kingdom of Macedonia – or Macedon – was a relatively small part of the present day Greek province of Macedonia. It first expanded under King Perdiccas I, then widened to take in other areas. After the fall of the Greek Empire, the Romans – who admired Alexander – used the old name Macedonia for the province encompassing much of northern Greece and the area north of it – including much of the modern-day Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. With the breakup of the Roman Empire into East and West, this region was overrun by the Slavic invasions. An entirely new province far to the east, including part of Thrace in modern-day Turkey, was named Macedonia by the Byzantine Empress Irene of Athens. The geographic region known as Macedonia today roughly equates to the part of the Ottoman Empire known as Ottoman Vardar Macedonia. It included Greek and Slavic areas and was split into three administrative units, but the concept of Macedonia persisted. This remained the case for centuries and so this concept – of what Macedonia is – has stuck. ...and there's certainly a fair bit of overlap — and room for confusion. Of course, Macedonia's King Alexander the Great's realm stretched all the way to India — but it would be a bit of a stretch to call that Macedonia As if it weren’t complicated enough, there’s another meaning of the word Macedonia. In Greece and many Latin-language-speaking countries, it’s also a fruit salad. The name is thought to have ben popularized at the end of the 18th century, referring to either the ethnic diversity of Alexander's vast empire or the ethnic mix of Ottoman Macedonia. Author: Richard Connor The latest protests come after Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev said last month he would reopen negotiations with neighboring Greece to solve the long-running dispute over its name. Greece objects that its neighbor's constitutional name, simply Macedonia, arguing that it implies a territorial claim to its own northern region of the same name. The issue has grown to become ongoing political dispute, and even hampered Skopje's ambitions to join the European Union and NATO. After splitting from the former Yugoslavia in 1991, Macedonia was admitted into the United Nations two years later under the name Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). Protesters have also demanded that the UN recognize the country under its constitutional name. Announcing plans to seek a resolution with Greece, Zaev said he would accept a "geographical qualifier" as a compromise in the talks with Greece — such as "Vardar," "upper," or "north." However, it insisted that any compromise must "respect the dignity" of the Macedonian people. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2s7Q3 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/rc (AP, Reuters)