Slovakia's prime minister, Robert Fico, said Wednesday he was prepared to resign on the condition that his social democratic Smer-SD party gets to choose a successor. "Today I have offered my resignation to the president of the republic," Fico said. "If the president accepts it, I am ready to resign tomorrow." Read more: Mafia ties and journalist's murder threaten to bring down government The shock announcement is seen as an attempt by the embattled prime minister to keep his three-party coalition in power and avoid snap polls. "Early elections would be almost certainly accompanied by chaos and instability," Fico said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uGws Brutal killing Fico's government has been plunged into crisis following the murder of Slovak journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancee in February. The 27-year-old reporter had been investigating high-level corruption and alleged Mafia links to politicians and businessmen in Slovakia. Read more: Opinion: Warning signal for Europe from Slovakia The killings reignited debate about corruption and press freedom in Slovakia, triggering mass anti-government demonstrations across the country. Protesters also demanded Fico's government step down and hold early elections. Police have interviewed more than 100 people as part of the investigation into the deaths, but no one has yet been charged. Slovakia has witnessed its largest protest since anti-communism rallies in 1989, with an estimated 50,000 gathering in the capital, Bratislava. The reason: the murder of investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancée. Their murders sent shockwaves across the country and the EU. Kuciak was working on a story linking businessmen operating in the country with the Italian Mafia before his death. The protesters have demanded Prime Minister Robert Fico and the rest of his government resign. According to Kuciak's last unfinished story, one of the businessmen had worked with two people who worked in Fico's office. Although the men have resigned and denied any links, Slovak citizens are frustrated at the government's failure to tackle corruption in the country, chanting "Enough of Fico." Kuciak's murder has pushed growing frustration to a fever-pitch, with protesters saying the government can't be trusted to properly investigate the crime. "Politicians in power have lost our trust," said one of the protesters. "We don't trust them to guarantee an independent investigation. They have failed to investigate all previous scandals." Slovak President Andrej Kiska, considered a political rival of the prime minister, said the country is facing a crisis of trust. He has called on the government to reconfigure its three-party coalition or face early elections. But that's not what protesters have demanded. Instead, demonstrators have called for a "new trustworthy government." Analysts believe Fico is unlikely to make out of the ensuing political crisis. Martin Slosiarik of the Focus polling agency told Reuters news agency. "Kuciak's last story has had a serious impact on people's trust in the system of government, and the murder of two young people has added a strong moral aspect," said Slosiarik. ls/sms (Reuters, dpa) Political crisis Slovakia's opposition had called for a no-confidence vote to be held against Fico's government next Monday. Earlier this week, a junior partner in the Fico-led coalition, the Most-Hid party, threatened to leave the alliance unless fresh elections were held. President Andrej Kiska has also called for sweeping changes, or early elections, to solve the crisis. But Fico has rejected the idea of polls, saying the country could "plunge into chaos if the current opposition takes power." It was not immediately clear if Kiska would agree to the terms of Fico's resignation. nm/jm (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.