Former US President Barack Obama and his wife Michelle have advanced talks with streaming service Netflix to offer high-profile shows, The New York Times reported on Thursday. Netflix did not respond to the newspaper's request for comment. However, Obama senior adviser Eric Schultz said in a statement given to the Associated Press that the Obamas are convinced of the power of storytelling to inspire others. The Netflix series spearheaded by Obama would not be a platform to respond to developments in the current presidency of Donald Trump, The New York Times reported. The program would rather focus on inspiring stories. Barack and Michelle Obama have always been charismatic Media-savvy Obamas The newspaper also reported that Apple and Amazon.com were interested in speaking with the former president about content deals. The former president is extremely popular on social media, with over 101 million followers on Twitter and 55 million fans on his Facebook page. Last year, Penguin Random Houselanded book deals with Barack and Michelle Obama, with each to write one volume, after a global bidding auction exceeded $60 million (€48.8 million), the Financial Times reported. Barack Obama was recently showcased on a new Netflix show by talk show giant David Letterman. Barack Obama has long been open about his close friendship with pop queen Beyoncé and her husband, rapper Jay Z. "I like Mozart - but I like Kanye and I'm a Jay Z fan, too," he said in 2008, reported Pitchfork. Beyoncé performed at Obama's first inauguration in 2009. He told Cleveland Z107.9 radio host Colby Colb in 2012 that the diva "could not be sweeter to Michelle and the girls." Beyoncé isn't the only diva in Obama's life. Soul legend Aretha Franklin performed "My Country 'Tis of Thee" at his 2009 inauguration and her "Rock Steady" made the president's Spotify playlists in 2015 and 2016. Her December 2015 concert at the Kennedy Center hit Obama's soft spot, moving him to tears. After being elected in 2008, Obama revealed his iPod playlist featuring songs by Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, Jay Z, Miles Davis and others. Another iPod tune list was released after his re-election in 2012. In 2015, however, he announced on Twitter that he was publishing two summer playlists (labeled day and night) on Swedish streaming service Spotify - also signaling his tech savviness. Jazz trumpeter Miles Davis has been a regular on Obama's playlists, as have Aretha Franklin, Nina Simone and Billie Holiday. But the president's musical taste isn't stuck in the past. He's also included acts like Coldplay, Justin Timberlake and John Legend, as well as lesser-known musicians like the Philadelphia band Low Cut Connie. President Obama is not only a long-time fan of musical genres ranging from soul and jazz to rock and rap, he also hasn't been shy about revealing his own musical talent. During a speech at Apollo Theater in Harlem in January 2012, he broke out into an a cappella rendition of Al Green's "Let's Stay Together" after noting that singer known as The Reverend was personally in the house. In February 2012, B.B. King performed at the White House Blues Festival and by the end of the night, Obama was joining in on "Sweet Home Chicago." When King passed away in May 2015, Obama said, "B.B. King may be gone, but that thrill will be with us forever. And there’s going to be one killer blues session in heaven tonight." While Obama has been known to get emotional about music, he moved many to tears himself in June 2015 when he sang during the funeral of Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who was killed during a mass shooting at one of the oldest African-American churches in South Carolina. The president's rendition of "Amazing Grace" went viral. Obama has always positioned himself as a down-to-earth, media-savvy politician who meets the public in their space: prime-time TV. He appeared on Jimmy Fallon's "Tonight Show" in both 2012 and 2016 to slow jam the news, most recently pointing out the successes of his presidency, including boosting jobs and environmental protection. The video has since garnered over 12 million views on YouTube. In May 2009, Lin-Manuel Miranda performed at the White House Poetry Jam, debuting what would later become the opening song for the hit musical "Hamilton." Just last year, Obama met Miranda again in the White House Rose Garden, where the latter freestyle rapped a rundown of the president's accomplishments. Like many presidents before him, Obama has hosted numerous music festivals at the White House. But in 2016 both he and Michelle Obama made appearances at the renowned SXSW festival in Austin, Texas, a media and music event that has grown in recent years. The Lumineers performed "Stubborn Love" on the day of his visit - a song that also made Obama's 2015 playlist. "It's a job of a father to embarrass his daughters," said Obama as he sang "Happy Birthday" to Malia during her 18th birthday bash on July 4, 2016. Obama wasn't the only performer that night. Funk-soul artist Janelle Monae and rapper Kendrick Lamar were also on the rundown - though they were likely less embarrassing for Malia. In many musical genres, moving your feet is half the act and both Barack and Michelle Obama didn't disappoint last February when they welcomed Virginia McLaurin to the White House. The then 106-year-old resident of Washington, DC was invited to celebrate Black History Month - and the trio broke out spontaneously in a dance. Barack Obama isn't the only talent in the family. Michelle Obama joined comedian James Cordon for a round of Carpool Karaoke in July 2016, chiming in on tunes from Stevie Wonder and Beyoncé. Surprise guest Missy Elliott even turned up to sing "This Is for My Girls." Author: Kate Müser als/eg (Reuters, AP)