Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Wednesday announced his country would be withdrawing from the International Criminal Court's (ICC) Rome Statute, due to what he called attacks from UN officials, according to a draft statement. The ICC in February launched a preliminary examination to determine if crimes against humanity may have occurred during Duterte's deadly war on drugs, and whether the ICC had jurisdiction to take on the case. Read more: Will Filipinos rise up against President Rodrigo Duterte? "I, therefore, declare and forthwith give notice...that the Philippines is withdrawing its ratification of the Rome Statute effective immediately," Duterte said in a statement. In the statement, which still needs to be signed by the president, Duterte said the decision had been made following "baseless, unprecedented and outrageous attacks on my person as well as against my administration" by UN officials. Read more: Will the ICC prosecute Philippine President Duterte? He said the ICC was attempting to seek jurisdiction over him, which was "in violation of due process and presumption of innocence." Inmates who cannot be accommodated in the prison cells sleep on the ground in the open air. At present, it's rainy season in the Philippines. And in the current tropical temperatures, it's raining almost every day. Whoever possesses a hammock should consider themselves lucky. The prison, which was built 60 years ago, has a capacity to house 800 inmates. But today there are as many as 3,800. Every nook and corner in the prison is occupied. Most of the prisoners sleep on either thin sheets or bare concrete floor. A prisoner toughens up his muscles in an exercise room. Signboards remind inmates of prison rules. The handcuffed prisoners shown here are awaiting their trial. One prisoner cleans the toilet while the others try to kill time. Only occasionally can the prisoners free themselves of sweat, filth and stench. A guard locks the gate in the evening, while the inmates get ready for another night in the overcrowded prison. Many hold newly elected President Duterte responsible for the inhumane situation. His campaign against drugs has shown no mercy. He has called on the people to kill drug addicts, which has led to an unprecedented wave of vigilantism in the Southeast Asian nation. Cases have been filed against 600,000 drug dealers and addicts so far, completely overwhelming the justice system. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen / sri Killing made 'best practice' The ICC investigation began after Philippine lawyer Jude Sabio filed a complaint with the court last year, accusing Duterte of making killing "best practice" in his crackdown on drugs. Last week, Duterte said that there was no chance he would go on trial at the ICC because "not in a million” years would the ICC have jurisdiction to indict him. "Believe it. They cannot ever, ever hope to acquire jurisdiction over my person," Duterte said. Read more: No drug-related extrajudicial killings in the Philippines? Duterte has labeled the ICC "useless" and "hypocritical” and last week told security forces they should not cooperate with the UN and ICC, despite previously saying he would be open to any investigations by them. The ICC is a court of last resort and only intervenes when a government is found to be unwilling or unable to do so. Presidential spokesman Harry Roque had last week said the ICC would find it had no jurisdiction in the Philippines and no crime to investigate, "because Philippine courts are able and willing." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fBTM law/rc (AFP, dpa, Reuters)