Manchester United 1-2 Sevilla, Old Trafford (Lukaku 84' — Ben Yedder 74', 78') Wissam Ben Yedder came off the bench to score two late goals for Sevilla and send Manchester United out of the Champions League on away goals. United had been expected to progress despite taking only a goalless draw away from Seville two weeks ago. But Jose Mourinho's side labored in front of goal and rarely troubled the visitors. Read more: Heynckes expects 'hot-blooded' atmosphere in Turkey With the game drifting towards extra time, Ben Yedder came off the bench and scored 80 seconds later, drilling a low shot into the bottom corner to score the fastest goal by a substitute in this season's Champions League. Sevilla weren't done there, and neither was Ben Yedder. The forward's header four minutes late crept in after David de Gea desperately tried to claw it out, but it bounced off the post and cleared the line. The frustration around Old Trafford started to grow but Romelu Lukaku gave United hope with a close range finish with six minutes to play, although United needed three goals at this point to complete an unlikely turnaround. It proved too little too late as United were ousted out of the competition by Vincenzo Montella's savvier opponents, as Sevilla reach the quarter-finals of the European Cup for the first time in six decades. Edin Dzeko scored his 17th goal of the season for Roma, and it proved a vital one. Roma 1-0 Shakhtar Donetsk, Stadio Olimpico (Dzeko 52') Roma reached the last eight of the Champions League but they were pushed all the way by Shakhtar Donetsk. In another game of few chances, Roma seized theirs seven minutes into the second half when Edin Dzeko calmly slotted the ball under the advancing Andriy Pyatov to make it 2-2 on aggregate. Roma were forced to defend what they had for the remainder of the contest, but did so admirably, demonstrating why they are yet to concede a goal at the Olimpico in this season's Champions League, despite facing Chelsea, Atletico Madrid and a dangerous Shakhtar side. Roma join Juventus in the quarter-finals as two teams from Serie A reach that stage of the competition for the first time since 2006/07.