Isabelle Huppert began attending her first acting classes at the age of 14. By 18, she was filming her first movie. At 23, she became an international movie star. To this day, she remains there, at the top of the A-List by repeatedly delivering award-worthy performances. Born in Paris on March 16, 1953, Huppert appeared to be born into success. Her parents — a mother who teaches English and a father, an entrepreneur — are well-off. Although her father is of Jewish heritage, Isabelle and her four older siblings are educated Catholic and the fine arts have a natural place in the home. Acting classes during high school and admission to the Paris Conservatoire National d'Art Dramatique: all of this seemed obvious within the context of Isabelle's life. Nevertheless, she would never claim to have been lucky. "Luck does not just fall miraculously from the sky," she said. Rather, everyone can create the conditions of his or her happiness, she once said in an interview with the women's magazine Brigitte. She seems unapproachable and distant. Just a facade? One who should know is director Michael Haneke (pictured left). Huppert is his favorite actress; their latest collaboration was on the drama "Happy End." The exceptional actress became famous with films like "The Lacemaker," "Madame Bovary" and "The Piano Teacher." In the 1980s she became a star and was the crush of many teenage boys after playing in "La Boum." After part two, the then 16-year-old got out of the contract so she wouldn't have to shoot a third part. Through the erotic drama "Descent Into Hell" she proved she was not an innocent teenager anymore. Here she is seen as a Bond girl in "The World Is Not Enough." She is one of the divas of the new generation: Audrey Tautou. She couldn't completely rid herself of the image of the strange but lovable Amélie Poulain. The movie "Amélie" helped her with her breakthrough as an actress and she later starred in several other successful films. Tautou created a buzz internationally by playing alongside Tom Hanks in "The Da Vinci Code." She is one of the most important French film actresses of our time. Born in Paris in 1943, it was the film "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg" that made her famous at the tender age of 21. The woman with the flawless appearance and cool expression played in films by renowned directors such as Roman Polanski, François Truffaut or Luis Buñuel. She shot films with almost every famous director. Moreau starred in very influential films such as "Elevator to the Gallows," "Jules et Jim" or "The Lovers." In 1965 her striptease with Brigitte Bardot in the revolutionary comedy "Viva Maria!" caused a real scandal. The legendary actress died in July 2017. Speaking of Brigitte Bardot... She should not be missing from this list, of course. In the 1960s she became an erotic icon as an actress, singer and model. She made film history through her role in "Contempt" by Jean-Luc Godard from 1963. Here she's lounging with Maurice Ronet in "Les Femmes." Fanny Ardant, François Truffaut's last muse and companion, is one of the most popular actresses on the screen and on stage in her home country. Director Truffaut discovered Ardant in a TV series and wanted to get to know her. A lunch with him and Gérard Depardieu followed. In 1981 she had her breakthrough in the "The Woman Next Door." She celebrated her first major success at the Comédie Française, but it was Truffaut's "The Story of Adele H." that made her famous as a film actress. By working with many renowned directors she soon became one of the sought after cinema names in Europe — and her image changed from comedy actress to femme fatale. From a very young age, the daughter of a theater director and an actress was present on stages and celebrated her film debut at 18. It did not take long for Hollywood to take note. In 1996, she won an Oscar for best supporting actress in "The English Patient." Binoche is considered to be very headstrong: She refused a role in the blockbuster "Jurassic Park." The daughter of Jane Birkin and Serge Gainsbourg created a stir in Lars von Trier's "Nymphomanic." The film shows a woman who experiments with her sexuality in all kinds of ways. It is not Gainsbourg's first appearance is a daring role. The film "Antichrist" (pictured), also directed by von Trier, gained a reputation as a scandalous film. Long before her highly debated death scene in "Batman — The Dark Knight Rises" the beautiful Marion Cotillard was talked about. In 2011 she was named the best-paid French actress. Cotillard has shown that she can be very versatile — particularly in her role as Edith Piaf in "La Vie en Rose," for which she won an Oscar in 2008. Seydoux is another French actress who became a Bond girl (here with Christoph Waltz in "Spectre"). She first became famous with "Blue Is the Warmest Color" — a film that both fascinated and shocked critics and audiences, particularly with its seven-minute lesbian sex scene. Together with co-star Adèle Exarchopoulos and director Abdellatif Kechiche, Seydoux received the Golden Palm in 2013. Author: Annabelle Steffes-Halmer / rb Huppert, the intellectual She appears to be continuing to do this. Isabelle Huppert is relentless. She has a considerable body of work, and has been starring in two to three films a year for decades. Four of them will be released this year, including Benoît Jacquot's psycho-thriller "Eva," which competed at the 68th Berlinale, and in which Huppert, as a noble prostitute, drives a fraudulent writer into bondage and ultimately into catastrophe. Seductive and manipulative: Huppert in Jacquot's "Eva" Extraordinary women marked by tragedy and surrounded by mystery — these are Huppert's trademark roles. Her choices in roles and collaboration with some of the most renowned directors in the world, such as Michael Haneke ("The Piano Teacher") or Claude Chabrol ("Violette Nozière"), have earned her a reputation as an "intellectual actress." This is inaccurate, she claims in an interview with Zeit Magazine, because her films —  even if they could be seen as intellectual —  do not say anything about her. She sees herself rather as a "tool" of the directors, following their instructions exactly, with hardly any improvisation. Strong characters through minimal gestures Huppert expresses the moods and mental state of her characters with precision and great sensitivity. Her seemingly expressionless face and sparing facial expressions have become something of a trademark. Fiction has a tendency to inflate things, she said in an interview with The Financial Times in July 2017. "But when I look at people on the street, I find that most of them are pretty empty in their eyes. I have to do even less." To observe, she has been taught, you have to take away, not add something. Her performance in Michael Haneke's disturbing thriller "The Piano Teacher" was rewarded with her second best actress award in Cannes But her acting style, one of reduction, has meant that audiences and critics often view Huppert as unapproachable, cool. It's an image that does not do justice to the French woman, who stands just 1.50 meters tall. Multi-faceted, she is married to the film director Ronald Chammah; the couple has three children. Art and photography are among Huppert's passions. In her home, she collects photos and books —  "I want to hold tight to the positive memories from my life" — and gets scared when she has to go into confined spaces. Women on the edges of society get a voice  Huppert has appeared in around 140 films since 1972. She has found herself working with some directors repeatedly: Michael Haneke, Paul Verhoeven, the late Claude Chabrol or Bob Wilson. Working with them, she can inhabit extreme characters — "survivors who can be victims and rebels simultaneously," says the actress. "My films give these women a voice. Because even though they live on the edges of society, they are there: women who live brutal lives. It's a brutality that they themselves never sought out," Huppert told Zeit Magazine. Read more: 'Elle' wins at France's Cesar Awards In Verhoeven's "Elle" she plays a woman who takes revenge after being raped. Huppert got an Oscar nomination for the role Her portrayals in these challenging roles have already earned Huppert numerous awards, among them the most important in the film industry: the French César, the European Film Award, Berlin's Silver Bear, Cannes' Best Actor Award and the Golden Globe. The statues decorate Huppert's home. All that is missing is the Oscar, an award for which she was finally nominated for the first time last year with "Elle" (Paul Verhoeven, 2017). Absolute confidence Of her acting capabilities, she says she has "unlimited self-confidence." "I never doubt. I have absolutely no fear," she told The Financial Times. "There are so many other areas where I am not that ... Crossing the street, meeting people ... Everything that's vital. But acting, nothing can intimidate me. Acting is never an obstacle. I do it without thinking. It's like eating or drinking." Now, at 65, looking back at a nearly 50-year-old career with continuous success and a controversy-free private life, one might ask: What more can Isabelle Huppert hope to accomplish? As she told Brigitte magazine, sometimes, there is "this slight meaningless phase of lazy exhaustion," there, though if she were to quit, she wouldn't know who to hand in her resignation to. She sometimes fantasizes about what she'd do instead. "Clearly, though, I am in opposition to this daydream." 