The number of patients treated for exposure to the unknown nerve agent in the British town of Salisbury has risen to 21. But officials have not yet confirmed exactly what substance they found. Here are the top five substances political regimes have used in the past - or may use - to kill people - adversaries or traitors. Investigators at work, after Russian agents poisoned defector Litwinienko in London Polonium 210 Russian agents used the radioactive element to poison former FSB agent Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006, British investigators say. Former Russian spy-colleagues met him there and poured the substance into his tea. It took 23 days between the day when he was hospitalized and his death. The substance has a half life of 138 days. It is almost impossible to detect if the investigation starts too late. However, the main reason why many investigators may fail to detect it is that they simply don't look for it. Polonium can not be bought on the market. In nature, it only appears in marginal quantities as a product of radioactive decay. Only nuclear powers are able to produce Polonium in quantities that could be used to kill. In order to produce the lethal dose of 100 nanograms, one would need several hundred kilograms of raw uranium ore. In a nuclear reactor, one could generate Polonium by bombarding bismuth with neutrons. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2T8oq Handling polonium is not very dangerous for the killer. The element is a strong ionizing alpha emitter. When sealed in any packaging, it is actually rather safe. The radioactivity will not even penetrate a sheet of paper. However, if inhaled or ingested - like in the tea - it damages the stomach lining, destroys leukocytes in the blood and results in anemia. Also, it destroys stem cells and prevents them from multiplying. Finally, the victim will die within a few days or weeks. Ricin Ricin is one of the most dangerous poisons in the world. Just a few milligrams of the naturally occurring carbohydrate-binding protein are enough to kill someone when injected, swallowed or inhaled. It can be extracted from the seeds of the castor oil plant Ricinus communis. In the body, Ricin prevents the production of essential proteins. As a result, the central nervous system, kidneys, liver and other organs will fail. Death by multiple organ failure or cardiovascular shock will occur within a few days. Georgi Markov was publishing unpleasant details about the habits of communist leaders. He was poisoned with ricin. Ricin became famous in the Georgi Markov umbrella murder case. A Bulgarian communist agent fired a tiny bullet with the substance into the defector's leg in 1978 in London. Markov died three days later. Investigators at the time suggested that the Soviet agency KGB may have provided the poison. It is plausible that Bulgarian dictator Todor Zhivkov ordered the assassination of the writer, because Markov published biting details about the primitive realities and low culture of the innermost top circles of the communist regime. His sarcastic broadcasts on western media, including the BBC, RFE and DW, were popular with listeners in Bulgaria. VX More recently, on February 13, 2017, two women sprayed the nerve agent VX into the face of Kim Jong Nam, killing the half-brother of North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong Un. The assassination took place at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Kim Jong Nam died on the way from the airport clinic to another hospital shortly after the attack. The two women were from Vietnam and Indonesia and claim that they did not know that the spray included the nerve agent and that they were made to believe that they were part of a candid-camera prank. Investigators believe that Kim Jong Un ordered the assassination. North Koreas dictator Kim Jong Un had his half brother poisoned with VX. One of the women, who sprayed the substance is being arrested. VX is the most dangerous known chemical nerve agent. Only 0.4 milligram of the substance is enough to kill a full-grown man. The poison can even permeate the skin, with 8.6 milligrams enough to kill. Chemist Ranajit Gosh discovered the substance in the 1950s when researching on pesticides in the laboratories of the British Imperial Chemical Industries. A related substance called VG was used as a pesticide under the name Amiton - but only for a short period. During the Cold War, the United States started mass producing VX. The Soviet Union produced a related nerve agent VR, known as "Russian VX." The nerve agent has been banned under the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention. North Korea is not a signatory. Other historic incidents in which VX was used include the 1988 mass killing of roughly 5.000 Kurdish civilians by the forces of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein in the town of Halabja and the 1995 subway terror attack by Japanese sect leader Shako Asahara, who killed 13 people and injured more than 1,000 with VX. A bottle with medical Botox Botox The poison, produced by Clostridium Botulinum is mainly known from cosmetics and food poisoning. The bacteria is ubiquitous, but can only develop and multiply in an environment without oxygen. That's why it occurs in spoiled salami. Botox is similar to the toxin at work in a tetanus infection. It is a neurotoxic protein, which blocks the transmission of signals by the nerve cells. This results in a paralysis of the vegetative nerve system and muscle weakness. A paralysis of the lung function can be fatal. 0.3 microgram of Botox can kill a grown adult man. In cosmetics, Botox is used to reduce the effect of wrinkles. But the use is controversial. Botox is considered a potential biological weapon. The main concern is that it could be used in bioterrorism. Iraq under Saddam Hussein had a program for producing Botox as a weapon of war. According to Cuban secret service head Fabian Escalante's Book "Executive Action", the CIA or Cuban exiles were planning to kill Fidel Castro once with a Botox contaminated cigar. That claim can not be independently confirmed, however. Poison dart frog only produce the toxin, when living in their natural habitat BTX Batrachotixin is another extremely powerful neurotoxine. It is a steroidal alkaloid produced by poison dart frogs. 0,2 grams are enough to kill a human. The toxin causes arrhythmias and ventricular fibrillation in heart muscles, resulting in a cardiovascular arrest. It is not possible to keep poison dart frogs in captivity and then produce the toxin, however. Only in their native habitat in the Central and South American rainforests are the animals able to produce the toxin. It is believed that the frogs can only develop the poison as a result of digesting certain beetles and insects. Also, one would need thousands of the frogs to produce enough BTX to kill a human. Furthermore, they are an endangered species. Therefore, for any nasty dictatorship it would probably not be feasible to use BTX as a weapon, and no such cases are known. It would probably be easier to get your hands on snake venom.