British Prime Minister Theresa May will weigh retaliatory sanctions against Russia after Moscow failed to respond to a deadline explaining how a nerve agent was used against a double agent on UK soil. May will address parliament on Wednesday after chairing a national security meeting called in response to British military lab findings that a variant of the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok was used against ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia some ten days ago. The two remain in critical condition. The British prime minister said Monday it was "highly likely" Moscow was behind the March 4 attack, or that it had "lost control" of the nerve agent. A midnight Tuesday  deadline set by May for an explanation passed without a response from Russia. Wary of going it alone, Britain has sought to rally allies against alleged Russian violations of international norms and chemical weapons treaties. The United States, EU and NATO have said they stand with Britain. Mulling sanctions Retaliatory measures being mulled include expelling Russian diplomats, seizing assets of Russian nationals accused of human rights abuses and cyber attacks. Britain is also considering parring back its participation in the World Cup to be held in Russia this summer. Meanwhile, British communications regulator Ofcom said it may review the license of Kremlin-backed broadcaster RT if Russian involvement is proven. Moscow has denied any involvement in the attack on the ex-spy in Salisbury, southwest England. Russia has said it would cooperate, but demanded Britain provide samples of the nerve agent. Russia wants 10 days to respond. Echoing previous statements, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Wednesday the UK was involved in a deliberately false campaign against Russia. As Britain pondered a response, the Russian Embassy to the UK said any punitive measures "will meet with a response." cw/rc (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 