The United Nations on Thursday called on Russia to implement a 30-day ceasefire in Eastern Ghouta, saying its compromise of a daily five-hour pause was ineffective for delivering aid. The UN Security Council in February voted unanimously for a 30-day Syria-wide ceasefire to allow aid deliveries and medical evacuations, but Russian-backed Syrian government forces have only implemented a brief daily pause in their otherwise relentless offensive in Eastern Ghouta, a region outside of Damascus. Read more: Syria blame game intensifies over stalled Ghouta truce No civilians have been able to flee from Eastern Ghouta during the five-hour pauses An impossible task Two UN envoys addressed the issue, both saying it was impossible to deliver aid and evacuate medical cases effectively within a five-hour window. Jan Egeland, head of the UN humanitarian taskforce for Syria, told diplomats from 23 states attending a weekly meeting in Geneva: Read more: What foreign powers want from the Syrian war UN Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura told reporters: The US State Department later slammed the humanitarian corridors as a "joke," saying people were afraid to use them for fear of conscription, exile or death. Elsewhere in Syria on Thursday, a convoy with aid for 50,000 displaced people arrived in Afrin, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross. Turkey continues to fight against Kurdish rebels in the area. More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel Hundreds killed: The bloody campaign in Eastern Ghouta, a series of towns and farms outside the Syrian capital, has killed more than 550 people in just 11 days, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. It is one of the last major rebel outposts near Damascus and the recently stepped-up efforts to crush rebel groups has had massive collateral damage. Complex task: Delivering aid to war zones requires tricky logistics. The UN and the International Committee of the Red Cross both said it is impossible to deliver humanitarian aid in five hours. They say it can take a full day just to pass all the checkpoints, and then they have to unload the goods. Seven-year war: More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011 following a government crackdown on protesters calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Since then, the conflict has evolved into a multifaceted war, drawing in global superpowers, neighboring countries and non-state actors. aw/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tUHE