Austrian police arrested a 23-year-old man on Thursday suspected of being involved in two knife attacks in Vienna on Wednesday evening that left four people critically injured. The suspect, an Afghan national, confessed to the stabbings. He blamed his "aggressive feeling and rage about his life situation," Vienna police spokesman Patrick Maierhofer said, adding that police do not believe there was a political motive behind the attack. Read more: What is the status of German deportations to Afghanistan? The suspect was detained after attacking an Afghan acquaintance at a park in Vienna known as a hot spot for drugs. The suspect "blamed him for his drug addiction," police said. The man was also responsible for an earlier stabbing involving an Austrian couple and their 17-year-old daughter, police said. The father remains in critical condition, according to authorities. Germany has also witnessed high-profile stabbings committed by Afghans. The suspect claimed he didn't have a political motive, according to police Fallout from war Last year, more than 3,600 Afghan nationals applied for asylum in Austria, making it one of the largest recipients of Afghan asylum applications. A study published by the University of Virginia's School of Medicine last year said Afghan refugees suffer from a high risk of depression and other psychological issues due to "negative experiences such as war trauma, displacement and resettlement, and post-migration socioeconomic difficulties." Read more: Refugee children making a new life in Germany "For patients with a refugee background, depression is especially prevalent, along with other psychological conditions such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and anxiety," the study said. Despite an ongoing Islamist insurgency that has claimed the lives of tens of thousands of civilians and security forces, many European countries consider Afghanistan a so-called "safe country." A massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German Embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack, but the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past. The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, mainly patients, doctors and nurses. In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike. US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman. But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as a proxy force to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years, but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams ls, ap/sms (dpa, AFP, AP)