Malian militant group Jama Nusrat Ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM) has claimed responsibility for twin attacks that rocked Burkina Faso's capital, Ouagadougou, reported Mauritania-based news agency Al-Akhbar on Saturday. JNIM said it launched deadly attacks on Friday against the French Embassy and a military compound in retaliation for the deaths of some of its leaders "in a French army raid in northern Mail two weeks ago," reported Al-Akhbar. Read more: Sahel zone — New operation to fight terrorism Up to 20 militants were "killed or captured" in that particular operation, French military sources told the Agence France-Presse (AFP) news agency. On Friday, 16 people were killed in the two attacks in Ouagadougou. The assault on a military compound and an embassy has sparked outrage in the country, with many wondering how jihadis could gain access to such high-profile targets. "We were all surprised by the ease with which they were able to attack this compound that's really in the center of the city," Idrissa Ouedraogo, a security expert at Ouaga II University Ouagadougou, told DW. Security personnel were caught off guard by Friday's attack 'Oppose their enemies' President Roch Marc Christian Kabore on Saturday urged citizens to remain calm and further collaborate with Burkinabe authorities to combat militant groups operating in the country. Read more: Sahel force could tackle jihadists 'without antagonizing communities' "In these difficult moments, I would like to reaffirm to Africa and the entire world my unshakeable faith in the capacity of the Burkinabe people to preserve their dignity and ferociously oppose their enemies," he said. Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) merged with other militant groups operating in the Sahel last year to form JNIM. Since 2014, France had led an international force aimed at uprooting jihadi groups in the region. Since 2015, Burkina Faso has been targeted by terrorist attacks. Last year, two militants opened fire on a restaurant in a central area of the capital and killed 19 people. In 2016, 30 people were killed when assailants laid siege to a popular hotel in the city center. Mali instability threatens region An interim UN report provided to the Security Council on Saturday warned that insecurity in Mali "continues to rage." It noted that an armed pro-government coalition and a rebel alliance, both of which signed a 2015 peace deal, are seeing "progressive decline of their influence in areas traditionally under their indirect or direct control," AFP reported, citing the document. Read more: Germany's Bundeswehr mission in Mali "Such loss of territorial control, adding to the increasing fragmentation of armed groups along ethnic lines and the subsequent multiplication of non-signatory armed groups, represent currently the main threat to the implementation of the agreement." Last week, four UN peacekeepers were killed when a mine exploded underneath their vehicle in what was considered a deliberate attack. Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues. UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon. Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon. UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain. The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General. The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis. The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic. The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home. UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski ls/cmk (AFP, Reuters)