The UK and the European Union should agree to an unprecedented economic relationship following Brexit, British Prime Minister Theresa May said during Friday's highly anticipated Brexit speech. The speech comes amid growing EU frustration at what it has claimed are unrealistic British demands in divorce talks ahead of March 2019, when the UK plans to leave the bloc. What May said: EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April 2017 that divided the divorce talks into two phases. Phase I, in which both sides aimed to settle the basic terms of Britain's departure, started in July and ended with an agreement on "sufficient progress" in December. Officials are now holding Phase II negotiations on the post-Brexit relationship between Britain and the EU. London agreed to a formula for calculating what it owes in its "divorce bill" to the EU in early December after months of haggling by British officials. The current EU budget expires in 2022 and EU officials have said the divorce bill will cover financial obligations Britain had committed to before triggering article 50. The final bill will reportedly total around £50 billion (€67 billion). Both sides agreed in early December that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their residency rights after Brexit. British courts will have immediate jurisdiction over EU citizens living in Britain. But the EU's highest court, the ECJ, can hear cases until 2027 if British judges refer unclear cases to them. Britain and the EU also agreed in December that no border checks between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland would return post-Brexit. How feasible the commitment will be is unclear, as Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid customs checks at the Irish border. Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019. Both sides still have to hash out the details of the transition period in Phase II, including the exact end-date, whether new EU laws passed during the period will apply to Britain, and whether Britain can negotiate its own free trade deals. British officials hope to agree on the terms of the transition by March 2018. May has repeatedly said Britain will leave the European Single Market and the EU Customs Union. Leaving both could disrupt British-EU trade, but allow Britain to negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration — key demands by pro-Brexit politicians. London has said it wants to negotiate a new EU-UK trade deal during Phase II to minimize trade disruption before March 2019. Britain has also vowed to restrict EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that Single Market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. Author: Alexander Pearson Barnier welcomes 'clarity:' The EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, said he welcomed the "clarity" offered by May's speech. Barnier tweeted: "Clarity about UK leaving the Single Market and Customs Union & recognitioin of trade-offs will inform EUCO (European Council) guidelines re: future FTA," referring to the proposal EU leaders are set to make next week on a future free trade agreement. Little progress: May's speech came at a time when Brexit negotiations appear to be making little progress. On Thursday, EU Council President Donald Tusk challenged Britain to present ideas on how to prevent a hard border in Ireland after May rejected an EU proposal to the problem. Tusk had previously said Britain's position was "based on pure illusion" after media outlets reported Britain wanted to pick and choose which EU rules to align with after Brexit. Read more: Brexit: EU warns Britain of 'unavoidable' trade barriers if it leaves customs union May's reaction to EU Brexit treaty: Michel Barnier, presented a first draft Brexit treaty on Wednesday that aimed to define the future legal relationship between Britain and the EU after 2019. May called the draft "unacceptable," in part due to a provision that Northern Ireland stay in an EU customs union with if London and Brussels failed to find another solution to the Irish border problem. Read more: Ireland's Brexit border: The devil is in the detail Why the Irish border is controversial: The government in the Republic of Ireland and some political parties in Northern Ireland have dismissed the return of any checks along the common border. However, London's decision to leave the EU customs union and single market in favor of pursuing its own trade deals means that, under current laws, a hard border in Ireland would be unavoidable. What happens next: Leaders from the other 27 EU member states are set to decide on a transition period during a summit at the end of March. London and Brussels have agreed there should be a transition, but have yet to settle on the details. EU-27 leaders are also expected to draw up negotiation guidelines for the post-transition relationship at the summit. DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. The former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline splits talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2. Talks will now focus on a transition period and the future trading relationship between the two sides. While the Britain's Theresa May expressed her delight, European Council President Donald Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks will be "dramatically difficult." Author: Alexander Pearson dm, amp/aw (dpa, AP, AFP, Reuters)