Polls opened on Sunday in Colombia's highly contested parliamentary election, the first of its kind since President Juan Manuel Santos finalized a peace deal with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). "We can say, with a lot of pride, that these elections are the most peaceful, the most transparent … in the recent history of the country," said Santos after casting his vote. Read more: In Colombia, peace remains elusive one year on Santos, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2016 for ending a decades-long civil war, urged Colombian citizens to strengthen the country's democracy and "get out and vote." The country tends to have a low turnout rate alongside an average of 18 percent of votes invalidated in parliamentary elections since 2000, according to figures from the Sweden-based International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance. President Juan Manuel Santos has urged Colombians to exercise their democratic rights by voting 'Crucial moment' In a bid to rebrand as a political party after shedding their combat gear, FARC changed their name to the Common Alternative Revolutionary Force, which stays true to their Spanish-language acronym. Despite a disastrous campaign that witnessed rebels-turned-politicians mobbed by angry crowds, some FARC candidates remained hopeful of their prospect in the country's legislature. Read more: Colombia struggles to accept guerrillas' new political role "I think this is a crucial moment for Colombia," said former rebel commander Pablo Catatumbo, who is running for Senate. "It's the first time in my life that I have voted and I doing so for the sake of peace." However, the former rebels will likely fail to garner more seats than the 10 seats allocated to them under the terms of the peace deal. Their projected low performance is in part due to public outrage at the atrocities they committed throughout the conflict. In 1948, the assassination of populist leader Jorge Eliecer Gaitan sparked political chaos in Colombia known as "the violence." Tens of thousands died and peasant groups joined with communists to arm themselves. Later in 1964, a military attack on the insurgency's main encampment led to the creation of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC. FARC's political ideology has never been well defined. Initially, it sought to weaken the oligarchy's grip on power. The rebels also wanted land reforms in a country where more than 5 million people have been forcibly displaced, mostly by far-right militias. However, the group lost popularity as it turned to kidnapping and illegal gold mining for funds. To help the Colombian security forces fight against the insurgency and to counter drug-trafficking, the US began sending billions of dollars under Plan Colombia. The US State Department classifies the group as a terrorist organization and its leaders face US indictments. Latin America's longest-running armed conflict is responsible for the death an estimated 220,000 people, while millions of Colombians have been displaced within their country. According to Bogota’s estimates, there are 7.6 million direct and indirect victims of the conflict. The country has more landmine victims than any country except for Afghanistan. Peace talks between FARC and the government collapsed in the mid 1980s after at least 3,000 allies of FARC's political wing Patriotic Union Party were killed at the hands of right-wing paramilitaries. Efforts fell short again in 2002 after the rebels hijacked an airliner to kidnap a senator. The latest round of talks started in 2012 in Havana and culminated on August 24, 2016 with a deal. "We have reached a final, integral and definitive agreement" to end the conflict and build a stable, lasting peace, the government of President Juan Manuel Santos and the left-wing Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia said in a joint statement. In June, the negotiators had already announced a cease-fire agreement and a blueprint for how the estimated 7,000 to 8,000 fighters will demobilize. Author: Aasim Saleem Conservatives rising Opinion polls put former-President Alvaro Uribe and his hardline Democratic Center party in the lead, with some projections placing the conservative camp with an absolute majority in parliament. Conservatives have opposed the FARC peace deal. Analysts believe that a conservative government could try to block part of its implementation, including agrarian reform and a truth and reconciliation deal. Read more: FARC deal leaves Colombians out to dry "The mere fact of no applying what has been signed would be enough for this agreement to be ineffective," said Frederic Masse, a Colombian conflict expert at the Bogota-based Externado University. In 1964, FARC rebels launched an insurgency against the Colombian state in response to the government's brutal suppression of a peasant uprising. The ensuing conflict left more than 250,000 people dead, seven million displaced and 50,000 missing. Ivan Duque, who is planning to run as a presidential candidate under the Democratic Center party, has threatened to modify the peace accord if he comes to power ls/sms (AFP, dpa, AP)