Goals from Sandro Wagner, Corentin Tolisso and Thomas Müller sealed a comfortable 4-0 victory in Freiburg, after an own goal from the hosts' goalkeeper, Alexander Schwolow, got them off the ground. The win moves Bayern 20 points clear of second placed Schalke with just 9 games to go, meaning they could already have the title wrapped up before Dortmund visit on March 31. It's testament to their dominance this season that, in a game in which they never got out of first gear, they struck four times without top goalscorer Robert Lewandowski ever leaving the comfort of the subs' bench. The opening 25 minutes were a tighter contest than Bayern trainer Jupp Heynckes would have liked. His side looked sluggish as Freiburg repeatedly looked to hit them on the break. But, as so often happens against Bayern, it only required a goal for the floodgates to open. Müller's attempted cross ricocheted off Freiburg defender Çağlar Söyüncü before bouncing onto his goalkeeper's knee and into the net after 25 minutes. From then on, it was routine. Corentin Tolisso doubled the visitors' lead a few minutes later after his fierce strike from 25 yards found the top corner with the help of a defelction. Wagner's second half strike certainly won't be a contender for goal of the season, with the target man bundling home after a goal line scramble. Müller rounded things off on 68 minutes, turning in Joshua Kimmich's low corner at the front post. The ball arrived with plenty of whip and simply required a stray leg to knock it in. Something the Bayern man has made a career out of. All in all, a simple day at the office. +++ As it happened +++ Freiburg 0 - 3 Bayern Munich (Schwolow og 25', Tolisso 28, Wagner 54', Müller 68') FULL TIME It's all over in Freiburg, with FC Bayern running out comfortable winners thanks to goals from Tolisso, Wagner and Müller. That win puts them 20 points clear at the top of the table. 83' - He's closely followed by Arturo Vidal, who's replaced by Nick Süle. 80' - Thomas Müller's work is done and he's replaced by Rafinha. 74' - Thiago is replaced by Sebastian Rudy with three points already in the bag. The former Hoffenheim man arriving to add some fresh legs, no doubt. 68' - Müller makes it 4. It's another strike from close range but this time from a corner. Joshua Kimmich whips it towards the front post and Müller gets to it first and before rifling a shot into the roof of the net. 63' - Some great stuff from Bayern almost brings a fourth. Boateng sprays one to Müller, who does well to keep it in play then whips a delicious ball to Bernat. The Spaniard should head in but messes it up, heading down in to the ground and wide. 60' - A yellow for Koch after a late one on Wagner. Bayern can't do much from the free kick. 58' - A chance for Bernat now. He flies up from the left and has a decent view on goal but puts it wide. This could be a rout. Freiburg bring on Ravet for Höler. 54' - The goal stands. It was as scrappy as they come but Wagner won't care. Bernat controlled a ball on the left - VAR ruled it wasn't with his hand - and drilled low to Müller. He coulnd't finish but it fell to Wagner who stabbed in at the second attempt. 54' - Wagner has the ball in the net but they're checking something with VAR. 49' - Sandro Wagner heads narrowly wide after Thomas Müller picks him out in the Freiburg area. A very close call for Freiburg. 45' - Things get underway again in Freiburg. The home side are going to need a huge performance to salvage anything from this match. HALF TIME After a slightly unsettling opening, it's become very much business as usual for Bayern. An own goal forced by Thomas Müller and a long-ranger from Corentin Tolisso have them firmly in command. 41' - Petersen goes down under Hummels' challenge on the edge of the box but nothing is given, much to the annoyance of the home fans. 38' - Freiburg enjoy a rare spell of possession in Bayern's half but don't begin to look threatening. 34' - The early sting has gone out of this one now. Bayern dominating the ball  and on the hunt for more. 28' - It's two. Tolisso picks it up 30 yards out, has a stroll then takes a speculative hit. It's a sweet strike but a deflection off a defender's back takes it away from the keeper. You'd have to imagine that's game over. 25' - Ugh, this is so harsh on Freiburg. Hummels picks out Müller with a raking pass. He tries to lay it back but Söyüncü flicks it back to him. Müller again tries to force it across goal, it hits the keeper and bounces in. 22' - Some lovely stuff from Bayern, who work it left to right before Müller lays one off to Thiago on the edge of the box. He doesn't have much time but snaps off a decent effort that's held by Schwolow. 19' - Schwolow out quickly to punch clear Kimmich's cross. Wagner has barely had a kick yet. 17' - Bayern yet to really get in to this one and Freiburg look dangerous on the counter, Abrashi the latest to go close. 12' - Huge chance for Freiburg. A pass from deep splits the Bayern defence and Höler is in but Ulreich sticks out a foot to divert it round the post. A good save but Freiburg should be up. 11' - Tolisso finds a bit of space on the edge of the box and fires off a shot. But the Frenchman was off balance and it flies harmlessly over. 8'- Freiburg have started fairly well here and nearly got in a minute ago with a simple ball over the top. But Petersen just couldn't latch on to it. 4' - Bernat releases Alaba on the overlap and his crossed is just about hacked over his own bar by Söyüncü. 2' - Haberer tries to bring down a deep cross from the left but can't get it under his spell. Bayern clear. 1' - And we're off! 17:40 - Freiburg coach Christian Streich is interviewed by Sky ahead of the game about reports in the German media that he could be in line for the Bayern job. He looks perplexed, saying there's "absolutely nothing" in it. That's that then. 17:30 - Good evening, and welcome to the final game of Bundesliga matchday 25. Bayern Munich will want to remain on track for an earliest ever Bundesliga title win with three points in Freiburg today. They'll have to do it without their leading scorer though, at least from the start - Robert Lewandowski joins Arjen Robben on the bench. Freiburg's hopes may well rest on Bayern old boy Nils Petersen, the Bundesliga's top scoring German this season with 12 goals.