In her first major interview since she was re-elected chancellor on Wednesday, Angela Merkel said one of her new government's goals is to win back voters lost to the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD). "Our goal is to solve the problems of those who voted for this party out of protest," Merkel said in an interview with German public broadcaster ARD. "That means, of course, our aspiration is to reduce their numbers and, ideally, get them out of German parliament," she added. Read more: Five important demographic facts on the new German government She emphasized, however, that her government's main goal is to solve the problems plaguing German voters. Merkel was re-elected for a fourth term as chancellor by a margin of just nine votes. Although the ballots are secret, the results indicated that lawmakers within the governing grand coalition between her conservative Christian bloc and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD) voted against her. Read more: Opinion: Germany's government needs to 'win back lost trust' The head of the AfD in Leipzig was the center of controversy in 2016 when newspapers reported that a car in his motor pool had the license plate: "AH 1818." "AH" are the initials of Adolf Hitler. 1 and 8, the first and eighth letters of the alphabet, are considered a code for Adolf Hitler among neo-Nazi groups. As the AfD's lead candidate in Rhineland-Palatinate, the 28-year-old Münzenmaier cruised to a seat in the Bundestag. Münzenmaier made headlines in October when he was convicted of being an accessory to assault in a case of football hooliganism. But because that's considered a minor offense, he is able to exercise his mandate. The 75-year-old former CDU man is the AfD's choice for Bundestag vice-president, but members of the other parties say they won't approve his candidacy. Glaser once opined that Muslims shouldn't enjoy freedom of religion because Islam is a political ideology. Critics reject that view as unconstitutional. Frohnmaier is the chair of the party's youth organization, Junge Alternative. The 28-year-old wrote in August 2016 on Facebook that "our generation will suffer the most" from Merkel's decision to "flood this country with the shoddy proletariat from Africa and the Orient." The former soldier from Lower Saxony once told a journalist that he had no problem with "Germany for the Germans," a phrase that is often used by neo-Nazi groups. He has also collectively described the Green Party and The Left party as "constitutional enemy No. 1." The 77-year-old from Brandenburg was vice president of the Federation of Expellees (BdV) until 2012. He wrote in the newspaper "Ostpreussenblatt" in 2001 that he agreed with the statement that the Holocaust was a "myth" and an "effective instrument to criminalize the Germans and their history." In January, the Dresden judge railed against the "creation of mixed nationalities" that are "destroying national identity." He has also called for an end to Germany's "culture of guilt" surrounding the country's actions in the Second World War. The AfD's vice-chair is an MP in the European parliament and is known for her hardline conservative views. In 2016, she replied affirmatively to a Facebook user who had asked her whether armed force should be used to stop women with children from illegally entering Germany. She later apologized for the comment. One of the AfD's top candidates, Gauland was widely criticized after suggesting that the German government's commissioner for integration, Aydan Özoguz, should be "disposed of" in Turkey because she had said that there was no specifically German culture beyond the German language. The 38-year-old economist was the AfD's other top candidate. Despite living in Switzerland, Weidel ran for the Baden-Württemberg constituency of Bodensee. She drew criticism for describing Germany's integration commissioner Aydan Özoguz, who has Turkish roots, as a "stain" and a "disgrace." In a contested email attributed to Weidel, she called Angela Merkel's government "pigs" and "puppets." For a long time Frauke Petry was the face of the AfD, and she's one of the more recognizable figures in the Bundestag. But she's no longer a member of the right-wing populist party. Petry quit shortly after the election after falling out with other leaders. Because she won her voting district outright, she still gets a Bundestag mandate, where she sits as an independent. Author: Alex Pearson AfD protests in Bundestag Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the SPD took a hit during last September's general election, losing voters to the AfD. The far-right, populist party entered the Bundestag for the first time after earning 12.6 percent of the vote. They are currently the largest opposition party. AfD politicians particularly disapprove of Merkel's refugee policies and have repeatedly called for Merkel's ousting from office. Read more: What is the role of Germany's parliamentary opposition? During the vote in parliament on Wednesday, an assistant to an AfD deputy was expelled from the spectator's balcony after unfurling a banner that read "Merkel must go." Another AfD lawmaker was fined for posting a picture of his ballot on Twitter, showing that he'd voted against Merkel, along with the message: "Not my chancellor." Parliamentary rules dictate that the votes must remain secret. "We see images of her, where she can appear to be a quite bland and almost cold person, but what I wanted to get across was her humanitarian stance," said Northern Irish artist Colin Davidson of his Merkel portrait for Time's 2015 "Person of the Year" cover. That year, the chancellor dealt with "two existential crises," wrote Time—the European debt crisis and the arrival of throngs of refugees. US artist Elizabeth Peyton portrayed the German chancellor for a profile in Vogue magazine in 2017. Peyton's stylized depiction shows a much younger version of the politician. The artist is renowned for her small-format portraits of pop stars as well as historical and contemporary figures, such as European monarchs. They are often rendered with light skin and fine traits. The contemporary art collection of the Federal Republic of Germany was started in 1970. Every year, new works are added to it; many deal with issues such as cultural appropriation, symbols of power or nationalistic tendencies. A recent acquisition in the collection is this drawing by Dutch artist Erik Lieshout, portraying the chancellor with red lips and an inscrutable gaze. Angela Merkel has not only inspired renowned artists, but hobby painters as well. The most renowned one is certainly George W. Bush. The former US president portrayed a series of 30 world leaders, including Angela Merkel. They were shown in an exhibition called "The Art of Leadership: A President's Personal Diplomacy." Some sculptures of the chancellor are deliberately provocative: "European Citizenship" by Alexander Nikolic and Michael Kalivoda shows a defecating Merkel, while Peter Lenk's relief "Global Players" shows her and other German politicians naked and engaged in sexual play. Unoffending in comparison, Georg Korner's installation "Transit" (photo) also includes Merkel among 2,600 figures. Photographer Herlinde Koelbl immortalized the German chancellor in her series "Traces of Power," as well as former chancellor Gerhard Schröder and former foreign minister Joschka Fischer. Photographing and interviewing the politicians from 1991 to 1998 for the project, Koelbl's long-term study examines how years in office transforms people. In his series of images "Hipstory," Israeli illustrator Amit Shimoni portrays the powerful and influential as young hipsters. Trump, for instance, wears a Hawaiian shirt, while Obama has dreadlocks. Merkel is among them, with dark lipstick, a nose piercing and a felt black hat. New wrinkles around her eyes and mouth have been appearing in cartoonists' depictions of her, too. The German chancellor has been caricatured on countless occasions in newspapers worldwide—demonstrating that her influence and power go way beyond the country's borders. Author: Julia Hitz (eg) rs/sms   (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.