Radio Free Asia (RFA), a US government-funded broadcaster, this week accused the Chinese government of trying to silence and intimidate its Uighur service journalists, following reports that security forces had detained several of their close relatives. According to RFA, the Chinese government's broad campaign against the families of its staff came in retaliation to the broadcaster's coverage of Beijing's crackdown against the ethnic Uighur people in the Xinjiang region. Read more: China adopts new anti-terrorism law despite international criticism "Harassment is nothing new for RFA's journalists, especially among our Uighur and Tibetan staff with family in China,” the broadcaster's director of public affairs, Rohit Mahajan, told the New York Times. However, the latest detentions appeared to be far more extensive than previous ones, Mahajan added. Three times a day, alarms ring out through the streets of China's ancient Silk Road city of Kashgar, and shopkeepers rush out of their stores swinging government-issued wooden clubs. In mandatory anti-terror drills conducted under police supervision, they fight off imaginary knife-wielding assailants. An ethnic Uighur man walks down the path leading to the tomb of Imam Asim in the Taklamakan Desert. A historic trading post, the city of Kashgar is central to China's "One Belt, One Road Initiative", which is President Xi Jinping's signature foreign and economic policy involving massive infrastructure spending linking China to Asia, the Middle East and beyond. A man herds sheep in Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. China's worst fears are that a large-scale attack would blight this year's diplomatic setpiece, an OBOR summit attended by world leaders planned for Beijing. Since ethnic riots in the regional capital Urumqi in 2009, Xinjiang has been plagued by bouts of deadly violence. A woman prays at a grave near the tomb of Imam Asim in the Taklamankan Desert. Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking distinct and mostly Sunni Muslim community and one of the 55 recognized ethnic minorities in China. Although Uighurs have traditionally practiced a moderate version of Islam, experts believe that some of them have been joining Islamic militias in the Middle East. Chinese state media say the threat remains high, so the Communist Party has vowed to continue its "war on terror" against Islamist extremism. For example, Chinese authorities have passed measures banning many typically Muslim customs. The initiative makes it illegal to "reject or refuse" state propaganda, although it was not immediately clear how the authorities would enforce this regulation. Many residents say the anti-terror drills are just part of an oppressive security operation that has been ramped up in Kashgar and other cities in Xinjiang's Uighur heartland in recent months. For many Uighurs it is not about security, but mass surveillance. "We have no privacy. They want to see what you're up to," says a shop owner in Kashgar. The most visible change is likely to come from the ban on "abnormal growing of beards," and the restriction on wearing veils. Specifically, workers in public spaces, including stations and airports, will be required to "dissuade" people with veils on their faces from entering and report them to the police. Authorities offer rewards for those who report "youth with long beards or other popular religious customs that have been radicalized", as part of a wider incentive system that rewards actionable intelligence on imminent attacks. Human rights activists have been critical of the tactics used by the government in combatting the alleged extremists, accusing it of human rights abuses. China routinely denies pursuing repressive policies in Xinjiang and points to the vast sums it spends on economic development in the resource-rich region. James Leibold, an expert on Chinese ethnic policy says the focus on security runs counter to Beijing's goal of using the OBOR initiative to boost Xinjiang's economy, because it would disrupt the flow of people and ideas. Author: Nadine Berghausen Gulchehra Hoja, who has worked with RFA in Washington DC for 17 years, said that around 20 of her relatives had been seized by Chinese security forces. Among those arrested were her mother, father, brother, and other relatives. Rights group Amnesty International, issued an urgent call of action on Thursday, saying Hoja's family members were at risk of torture. Since last year, Beijing has said it is cracking down on separatist and religious extremists in the Xinjiang region. That campaign has seen tens of thousands of Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim and Turkic-speaking ethnic group arrested, with many confined in so-called "political re-education camps". Rights groups pile pressure on Beijing crackdown Reports of the targeted crackdown against RFA reporters' families prompted an array of condemnation from human rights group and press freedom watchdogs. The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said it was "alarmed" by reports coming out of Xinjiang. "Punishing family members of journalists beyond the reach of the Chinese government is a cruel, if not barbaric, tactic," CPJ Asia Program Coordinator Steven Butler said in a statement. "The Chinese government should immediately account for these people's health, whereabouts, and legal status and set them free." Earlier this week, rights group Human Rights Watch revealed that Chinese security forces were monitoring and recording data to identify possible Uighur dissidents. Officials had created a program that uses data on banking, health and legal records, as well as facial recognition technology to generate lists of people of interest, Human Rights Watch said. Read more: Hello, Big Brother: How China controls its citizens through social media The Chinese government has flooded Xinjiang with security forces for the past decade, claiming it is combating the threat posed by Islamist extremists in the region. However,  the Uighur minority has historically faced a raft of restrictions imposed on them by Beijing that people of Han ethnicity don't have to face. These include restricted access to acquiring a passport, being forced to register when staying at hotels, and allowing authorities to randomly check their mobile phones for suspicious content. DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.