At 10 a.m. on Monday morning, Chancellor Angela Merkel emerged for barely more than a minute to mark the end of months of political maneuvering and welcome the Social Democratic Party (SPD)back into the warm embrace of another centrist government. "After six months, the people have the right to a solid government," she said, employing her gift for understatement. Despite two years of upheaval following the refugee crisis, which resulted in the resurgence of far-right populism in the shape of the Alternative for Germany (AfD),Germany's notorious aversion to change was reflected in the clear vote in favor of a new grand coalition by the SPD members. But Merkel had to pay a price to say in the top job for four more years: Key ministries, particularly Finance, were given up to the Social Democrats. And on Monday it was revealed that her allies in Bavaria, the Christian Social Union (CSU), were handed key roles in the new government  much to the annoyance of some in her own Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Read more - New German government: What's at stake for the EU?  The rise of the Bavarians: CSU leader Horst Seehofer will be the new Interior Minister Chipping away at the CDU Merkel might be aware that the CSU needs some propping up. The party, which only fields candidates in its home state, took 38.8 percent of the Bavarian vote, its worst ever result. Not only that, the CSU is facing a state election in October, and is desperate not to lose the absolute majority it traditionally enjoys there. As was previously known, CSU leader Horst Seehofer will take on the role of interior minister, but on top of that, the DPA reported that the party's general secretary, Andreas Scheuer, will be the new transport minister. Meanwhile, other Bavarian figures assumed important positions: Gerd Müller will remain development minister, and Dorothee Bär is to become the new state minister for digitization. The appointments are expected to be confirmed on March 14. The fact that three major CSU politicians were accommodated in the new government underlined that the CSU, often considered the conservative wing of the CDU/CSU alliance, appears to have won concessions from Merkel in the long coalition negotiations that began the year - something which wasn't lost on members of her own party. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tfHl The cabinet comes together The SPD, meanwhile, has said it will take a few more days before it names its ministers. Olaf Scholz, currently the mayor of Hamburg, looks set to be appointed finance minister and vice chancellor, while designated party leader Andrea Nahles will lead the Social Democrats' parliamentary party. The biggest question mark remains over who, if anyone, will replace Sigmar Gabriel as foreign minister. The post was briefly the object of an unseemly spat between two SPD dinosaurs Gabriel and failed chancellor candidate Martin Schulz. Now Gabriel's grumbling appears to have cost him favor in his party, and the job is expected to go either to current Justice Minister Heiko Maas or current Family Minister Katarina Barley. Merkel's new cabinet - runner and riders (likely but not confirmed): Chancellor: Angela Merkel (CDU) - incumbent Chief of Staff: Helge Braun (CDU) - replacing Peter Altmaier (CDU) Interior Minister: Horst Seehofer (CSU) - replacing Thomas de Maiziere (CDU) Foreign Minister: Heiko Maas or Katarina Barley - replacing Sigmar Gabriel (all SPD) Defense Minister: Ursula von der Leyen (CDU) - incumbent Economy and Energy Minister: Peter Altmaier (CDU) - replacing Brigitte Zypries (SPD) Justice Minister: Heiko Maas (SPD), incumbent - or Eva Högl (SPD) Labor and Social Affairs Minister: Either Andrea Nahles, Katarina Barley, or Hubertus Heil (all SPD) Environment Minister: Barbara Hendricks (SPD) - incumbent Family Minister: Katarina Barley (SPD), incumbent - or Christina Kampmann (SPD) Health Minister: Jens Spahn (CDU) - replacing Hermann Gröhe (CDU) Education and Research Minister: Anja Karliczek (CDU) - replacing Johanna Wanka (CDU) Development Minister: Gerd Müller (CSU) - incumbent Transport and Digital Infrastructure Minister: Andreas Scheuer (CSU) - replacing Christian Schmidt (CSU) The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Scholz is all but set to be finance minister, and he will likely become vice-chancellor as well. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD in negotiations. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. Sigmar Gabriel would like to continue in his position as head of the Foreign Ministry, but after a public spat with former SPD leader Martin Schulz, it looks like Gabriel will not be part of the new Cabinet after all. As to who will succeed him? That's still up in the air, but it will be an SPD politician. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. The full name of the job Barley has held since June 2017 is minister of family affairs, senior citizens, women and youth. The trained lawyer may keep the post, but she also may move to a different ministry. In this case, another SPD politician would take her place. A surprise pick of Franziska Giffey, a district mayor in Berlin, would put a politician from eastern Germany in a west-heavy Cabinet. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, could take over the Transport Ministry. His has experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. One of the most likely candidates for development minister is Dorothee Bär. The CSU did not have any female ministers in Merkel's last Cabinet, a decision that many pundits believe the party can't afford to repeat. Bär could also potentially be minister of transport and digital infrastructure. The current development minister, fellow CSU politician Gerd Müller, said he'd "fight for [his] job." Högl could take over the Labor Ministry from Andrea Nahles, who is now head of the SPD parliamentary party and designated party leader. Högl has been a Bundestag representative for Berlin's SPD since 2009. Before that, she worked in the Labor Ministry. There are other potential SPD candidates, however: current Justice Minister Heiko Maas could switch over, or the post could go to MP Hubertus Heil. Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, and he could keep the job. However, he is also on the list of candidates for the job of foreign minister of minister of labor. Högl could also become the new justice head, given her legal expertise. Before moving to Berlin, Maas was head of the SPD parliamentary party in the small German state of Saarland. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Germany's current minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. But Hendricks may well continue on in her job. One success of her tenure as environment minister so far was German participation in the Paris Climate Agreement, adopted in December 2015. If she does bow out, Matthias Miersch, a politician from the SPD's liberal flank, could take over. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Author: Carla Bleiker