What started as an end-to-end contest turned into a sluggish crawl towards the finish as Leipzig and Dortmund split the points in Red Bull Arena. Read more: Bundesliga Matchday 25 roundup Naby Keita returned with a strong performance after missing Leipzig's last three games with a thigh injury. He threaded a perfect through pass to Jean-Kevin Augustin to set up Leipzig's first goal. Mahmoud Dahoud countered that midfield brilliance with some of his own less than ten minutes later, setting up Marco Reus for the equalizer with a terrific ball through Leipzig's defense. Dortmund has dropped from second place to third place in the table as a result and Leipzig's winless streak extends to four games. As it happened... 90' Fulltime 90+1' three minutes added on to the second half. 88' Dortmund substitution Christian Pulisic replaces Marco Reus, as straight substitution from Peter Stöger. 88' Lukas Klostermann crosses a ball in from the left flank, but Manuel Akanji clears it away. 86' Naby Keita hits Bruma in stride as the Portuguese winger runs into the left side of the penalty area. He cuts back to lose Lukasz Piszczek and set up his shot, but his right-footed effort flies wide of the far post. 85' Bruma crosses a dangerous ball into the penalty area from the right wing, but Lukasz Piszczek is perfectly positioned at the far post to clear the ball out of danger. 83' Lukasz Piszczek receives a yellow card for taking down Dayot Upamecano. 78' Dortmund substitution Maximilian Philipp replaces Mario Götze, a tactical substitution from Peter Stöger. Philipp was out with a knee injury since the beginning of December. 75' Leipzig substitution Yusuf Yuray Poulsen replaces Jean-Kevin Augustin, a straight substitution from Ralf Hasenhüttl 74' Jean-Kevin Augustin receives the all at the top of the penalty area and tries to slide the ball over to the run of Naby Keita. Manuel Akanji steps in and clears the ball away. 70' Bruma burst quickly into the left side of the penalty area past Lukasz Piszczek, but his cross falls harmlessly out for a goal kick. 66' Leipzig substitution Stefan Ilsanker replaces Kevin Kampl, both a straight change and a tactical change from Ralf Hasenhüttl. Ilsanker, a more defensive player than Kampl, is sitting deeper in midfield. 65' Mario Götze shoots a pass to Marco Reus down the right wing. Reus crosses the ball into the box and Willi Orban clears it out for a corner. Reus combines with Götze again on a short corner, but Reus' next cross floats out of play. 63' Mahmoud Dahoud makes a run with the ball into the left side of the box. He crosses the ball near the goal line, but the service is too far behind Michy Batshuayi for the Belgian striker to put a shot on target. 61' Leipzig substitution Bruma replaces Emil Forsberg, a straight substitution from Ralf Hasenhüttl. 61' Felix Brych shows Michy Batshuayi a yellow card after he kicks the ball away following a foul. 56' André Schürrle clears a corner from Emil Forsberg, but the ball only gets as far as Kevin Kampl. Mahmoud Dahoud is able to block Kampl's first shot, but the Slovenian's second is saved by Roman Bürki. 46' Kickoff 19:34 No changes from either side at the break. 45' Halftime 45+1' Mahmoud Dahoud sees yellow for fouling Marcel Sabitzer on the right wing on a break forward. 45+1' One minute added on to the end of the first half. 44' Konrad Laimer takes out the legs of Mahmoud Dahoud on a standing challenge outside Leipzig's penalty area. Marco Reus' short free kick is cleared away quickly. 42' Marcel Schmelzer tackles the ball away from Jean-Kevin Augustin on the right wing, but the linesman calls a foul for his studs-up challenge. Emil Forsberg's ensuing free kick is cleared away by Lukasz Piszczek off Lukas Klosterman for a goal kick. 38' GOAL! Mahmoud Dahoud threads a perfect pass through to Marco Reus from central midfield. Reus dribbles around Peter Gulasci and finishes on an empty net. Leipzig 1, Dortmund 1 33' Referee Felix Brych shows Julian Weigl a yellow card after an ill-advised tackle from the Dortmund midfielder. 29' GOAL! Naby Keita pokes the ball away from André Schürrle after a throw-in and threads a ball to Jean-Kevin Augustin, who fires a first-time effort from the left side of the penalty area inside the far post. Leipzig 1, Dortmund 0 26' Marco Reus combines with Michy Batshuayi at the top of the penalty area before Reus fires a shot into the back of the net, but the goal is disallowed as Reus is called for offside after he was unable to hold his run. 23' Lukasz Piszczek misplays and interception and the ball falls to Timo Werner. The Leipzig forward sprints past Manuel Akanji on the left wing and picks out Jean-Kevin Augustin in the box, but Omer Toprak clears the ball away before Augustin can fire a shot away. 19' Timo Werner tries to get around Lukasz Piszczek and is fouled on the left wing near the goal line. Emil Forsberg's ensuing free kick is punched away by Roman Bürki. 16' Naby Keita loses the ball in midfield, sparking a Dortmund counter-attack. Marco Reus feeds André Schürrle on the left, who passes the ball across the box to Michy Batshuayi for an easy tap-in, but Schürrle gets called for offside and the goal is disallowed. 14' Michy Batschuayi plays a cheeky back-heel pass around Leipzig captain Willi Orban to André Schürrle, but Schürrle gets called for offside. 13' Marcel Schmelzer shows a great bit of skill but cannot get away from the double-team of Kevin Kampl and Konrad Laimer on the left wing. 10' André Schürrle combines with Marcel Schmelzer along the left wing and feeds the ball to Michy Batshuayi in the middle. The Belgian striker turns and fires a shot that is saved by Peter Gulasci. Marco Reus balloons the follow-up shot. 9' Timo Werner jumps on a bad pass from Manuel Akanji and breaks forward into the box. His shot is saved by the upper arms of Roman Bürki and out of reach for the on-running Jean-Kevin Augustin. 8' Marcel Sabitzer breaks down the right wing and puts in a cross from the right side of the penalty area, but Manuel Akanji clears it out for a corner. Emil Forsberg's ensuing corner is cleared away as well. 7' Michy Batshuayi receives the ball at the top of the Leipzig penalty area from Marco Reus, but the flag goes up for offside. 5' Andre Schürrle makes a run down the right and receives the ball in space from Jeremy Toljan, but the flag goes up for offside. 1' Hard tackles right out of the gate. Leipzig right back Konrad Laimer lunges into an ill-advised tacke of André Schürrle, but escapes further discipline from referee Felix Brych. 18:31 Kickoff! 18:21 Peter Stöger told Sky Sports in Germany that he is looking for more coordination in his midfield. He said Mahmoud Dahoud was very engaged against Augsburg last Monday, which is why he is getting the start tonight. 17:58 While with Cologne, Peter Stöger never defeated Ralph Hasenhüttl the seven times the two Austrian coaches faced off. 17:40 Timo Werner returns: The German international sits atop Ralph Hasenhüttl's formation after starting on the bench in last week's 2-1 loss to Cologne. 17:38 An attacking XI from Borussia Dortmund. Peter Stöger reunites the German trio of André Schürrle, Mario Götze and Marco Reus behind inform striker Michy Batshuayi.