Turkey on Thursday captured the strategic town of Jinderes in the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northwestern Syria, marking a major setback for Kurdish forces in the area. The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which relies on a network of on-the-ground sources, said the town fell to Turkish rebels and Free Syrian Army (FSA) fighters "after heavy and sustained bombardment by Turkish aviation." Read more: Turkey's offensive against Kurdish-held Afrin: What you need to know According to Turkey's state-run Anadolu Agency, the Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) had been driven out of the town following intense clashes that caused extensive damage to infrastructure. Jinderes is considered one of the largest settlements in the region. In January, Turkey launched a major offensive with support from the FSA to uproot what it described as terrorist elements near its border with Turkey. The Turkish government claims the YPG, which forms an integral part of the US-led fight against the "Islamic State" (IS) militant group, is an extension of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), a terrorist-designated group that has carried out a decades-long insurgency against the Turkish state. End by May Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said Turkish forces will target the region's largest city, which also bears the name Afrin, after taking control of Jinderes. Syrian Arab militias allied with Kurdish forces said on Tuesday that they will redeploy roughly 1,700 fighters from active battlefronts against IS to Afrin in order to repel the Turkish offensive. Read more: With Turkey's offensive in Afrin, Erdogan is seeking to kill two birds with one stone Speaking at a press conference in Vienna, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said his government expects the operation to end by May so that Afrin can "quickly embrace stability and civilians can return." Turkey's offensive has raised tensions with the United States, which has supported the YPG-led Syrian Democratic Forces against IS. Washington has urged Turkey to restrain its military campaign in Syria, saying it risks jeopardizing the fight against extremists. Civilian cost Last week, human rights watchdog Amnesty International warned both sides of the growing civilian cost of the conflict in Afrin. "The fighting in Afrin between Turkish and US-backed Kurdish forces has already caused numerous civilian deaths and is putting the lives of hundreds more at risk," said Lynn Maalouf, who heads Amnesty's Middle East research division. Read more: Opinion: The twisted logic of the war in Syria "Reports of shelling of villages and residential areas in cities are deeply troubling," she said. "The use of artillery and other imprecise explosive weapons in civilian areas is prohibited by international humanitarian law and all parties should cease suck attacks immediately." Turkey's offensive has left at least 93 civilians dead and injured more than 300 others, including dozens of children, according to independent monitors. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson ls/sms (Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.