Political terrorist Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, better known as "Carlos the Jackal," on Monday was to appeal the life sentence he received last year for a 1974 Paris bombing, in what will be his last chance in court. Francis Vuillemin, Sanchez's longtime lawyer along with Isabelle Coutant-Peyre who is now his partner, said Sanchez would be asking for an acquittal. Read more: Opinion: We can't let the terrorists win Venezuelan-born Sanchez, 68, has denied responsibility for the attack at the Publicis Drugstore at Saint-Germain-des-Pres in Paris's Left Bank, which left two dead and 34 injured when a grenade was thrown from the mezzanine restaurant into the crowded gallery below. The sentence was Sanchez's third life term. He is already serving two life sentences for his role in attacks which left 11 people dead in 1982-83. He became one of the world's most notorious fugitives in the 1970s and 80s after he carried out a number of pro-Palestinian attacks. Despite no DNA or fingerprints being found after the bombing, judges determined all evidence pointed to Carlos. "There are incredible weaknesses in this case: witnesses manipulated by the security services, liars, fake evidence," Vuillemin said. Read more: Opinion: Vive la France! At the start of Sanchez's trial in 2017 he bragged that: "No one in the Palestinian resistance has executed more people than I have." Sanchez claimed responsibility for the attack in a 1979 interview with Arab-language French news magazine El Watan Al Arabi, but he says he never gave the interview. Sanchez arrives at the Criminal Court of the Palais de Justice in Paris in 2013 Prosecutors have said the Publicis Drugstore bombing was one of several attacks which aimed to pressure French authorities to free a member of the Japanese Red Army who had been arrested at Paris's Orly airport. The Japanese Red Army was aligned with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, of which Carlos had become one of the main operatives in Europe. The case took so long to go to trial because it was first dismissed for lack of evidence before being reopened when Carlos was arrested and imprisoned in France. His lawyers continued to introduce challenges throughout the proceedings. Sanchez's nickname came from a fictional terrorist in the 1971 Frederick Forsyth novel, The Day of the Jackal. People with links to terrorist organizations can be forbidden from leaving their town or city of residence and required to report to police. They can also be banned from specified places. This is a toning down of the emergency law, which allowed partial house arrest. Its provisions were used not just against suspected terrorists, but also to ban suspected radical leftists from demonstrations. Authorities will be able to carry out searches of homes, but only to prevent acts of terrorism. In contrast to the emergency powers, searches must first be approved by a judge. Of the 3,600 house searches carried out in the seven months after the state of emergency came into effect, only six resulted in terrorism-related criminal proceedings, according to a report by Human Rights Watch. Authorities retain the power to close places of worship where extremist ideas are propagated, including promoting hatred or discrimination, as well as inciting violence or supporting acts of terrorism. Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front, has complained the law did not go far enough in combating the "Islamist ideology that is waging war on us." Security forces can check the identity of people within a 10-kilometre radius of ports and international airports. The government's original draft bill proposed a 20-kilometre radius. Le Monde calculated this would have covered 67 per cent of the French population, including 36 of the country's largest 39 cities. Unlike the other powers, this one will not expire automatically in 2020. This continues emergency powers under which security forces can search property and frisk persons at and near major public events that could be targeted by terrorists. Other provisions include a civil servant working in an area related to security or defence can be transferred or dismissed if he or she is found to hold radical opinions. Soldiers can also be discharged for similar motives. Author: Jo Harper law/rt (AFP, AP)