Sithembiso Mutukura beat 12 other contestants to claim the crown at Zimbabwe's first-ever Miss Albinism beauty contest — an achievement she hopes will inspire others living with the rare disorder. "We must continue to advocate for our rights and I hope my win will empower the girl child," the 22-year-old social work student said. "I have gone through a lot, but I want people living with albinism to be brave and persevere in life." Read more: What is albinism? During the event in Harare on Friday night, the contestants had to respond to questions on stage and model a range of gowns and traditional African robes. Mutukura was awarded US$85 (almost €70) in prize money after being named winner. Read more: Mr. Albinism Kenya: 'Finally we achieved something' The 13 beauty pageant contestants strut their stuff on the catwalk Going global? Pageant organizer Brenda Mudzimu said a lack of funds had made it difficult to get the initiative off the ground. In the end, the contest only attracted one sponsor, but Mudzimu says she hopes to one day make the event international. "This will be an annual event which will later be advanced to Miss Albinism Africa and Miss Albinism World because we want to reach all corners of the world," she said. Read more: Zambian albinos call for 
end  to brutality In many African countries, people with albinism routinely face discrimination and 
persecution  because of the way they look. The genetic disorder prevents skin cells from producing 
melanin , resulting in abnormal pigmentation of the skin, hair, and eyes. People with the condition also suffer from vision problems and are susceptible to skin cancer. "The pageant aims to instil confidence in girls living with albinism in Zimbabwe as well as reduce the stigma," Mudzimu said. Read more: Cameroonian albino fights prejudice with music Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1Jyxv Attacks and discrimination Tapuwa Muchemwa, a Zimbabwean government representative who was the guest of honor at the pageant, said the country's leaders "strongly advocate that people with albinism deserve their right to life and security and to be protected as well as the right not to be subjected to torture and ill-treatment." The rate of albinism in Africa is much higher than in other parts of the world. Communities in some countries believe albinism can bring magical powers, wealth and good fortune — a superstition that has led to attackers kidnapping and murdering albinos to sell their body parts to witch doctors on the black market. According to the United Nations, there have been over 600 attacks on 
people  with albinism documented in 28 countries in sub-Saharan Africa over the past decade. Many more cases are thought to go unreported. "People with albinism are often not given proper education because of discrimination and stigmatisation. So we [at the Albinism Society of Kenya] came up with programs to empower them, to start their own businesses and be independent. That way they can take care of their families and be able to help themselves." Daniel Shisia is spokesperson for the Albinism Society of Kenya. Kibera is Nairobi's biggest slum. One million people live here. In one of the hectic main streets, in between a shoe shop and a kiosk, is a shop called "Mzungu Reloaded." "Mzungu" means "white person" in Kiswahili. Whycliffe owns the shop, but he is not a real "mzungu", he has albinism. "I decided to call it 'Mzungu Reloaded' because I look like a mzungu," explained Whycliffe. In Africa people with albinism stick out more than anywhere else in the world. Besides discrimination, they deal with skin problems due to the hot sun and limited eye sight. Whycliffe therefore wears a hat and glasses. He decided to use his "white" skin color as a trademark for his business. "Wherever I go, they call me 'mzungu' 'mzungu'. I thought, 'what trademark could I use for my business?' That's why I chose this name. Most people don't use this name with bad intentions, it's a way to accept me, it's not harmful." Whycliffe is a beneficiary of the economic empowerment program, a project of the Albinism Society of Kenya Albinism, an advocacy organisation spreading awareness. Daniel is the spokesperson at the Albinism Society of Kenya. He explains how important it is for people with albinism to have ordinary jobs and businesses to feel part of society. "In Tanzania and other neighboring countries, people are being killed. Here they are not being killed, but they are discriminated in terms of jobs. We feel we are not given that chance, not given that opportunity." "I found it hard to find a job. Some people didn't accept me, they thought I couldn't do the work. I went to so many places and found nothing. This business has enabled me to care for my family and buy bread. I have even been able to buy a house in Kibera with the help of a mortgage." Francis lives in Makadara, in the east of Nairobi. He also owns a small shop selling eggs, bread and sugar. He found that his fortunes turned around when he started to accept himself. He even offers money transfers and his business is growing. "My clients accept me, they are coming and leaving their money with me." This acceptance means a lot to Francis. Francis says he has never felt discrimination in Kenya. But Daniel at the Albinism Society remembers that not so long ago, when he was a child, the fear that you could be abducted in other countries for having albinism and perhaps killed was still prevalent. Whycliffe, Francis and Daniel are showing that living with albinism doesn't have to make life dramatically different from anyone elses. Author: Eva de Vries nm/rc (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.