The German men's ice hockey team was less than a minute away from winning the Olympic gold medal in Pyeongchang. The Germans led the Olympic Athletes from Russia (OAR) 3-2 late in the gold-medal game, but the Russians crushed their dream, scoring the tying goal with just over 55 seconds left in the third period. They then went on to score the winner on the powerplay at 9:40 of overtime. Nevertheless, the Germans left the ice as Olympic silver medalists, something no German team before them could say. Speaking to DW, centerman Marcel Noebels, 25, looked back with pride on Germany's almost unbelievable tournament. Read more: Russia beat Germany 4-3 to win gold medal in men's ice hockey DW: Marcel Noebels, has what you achieved for German ice hockey in Pyeongchang sunk in yet? Marcel Noebels: Not completely. I still think that what happened is hard to imagine. There are so many thoughts that shoot around in your head, not matter what time of day. But you slowly try to come down, to let things sink in and just appreciate them. What happened was sensational and unbelievable. Now I'm sitting here with a silver medal around my neck. The team's performance has caused a bit of a hockey craze in Germany. How much of this were you aware of in South Korea, and did it help inspire the team? Germany head coach Marco Sturm addresses his team I have to say that we didn't know much about what was happening in Germany. But when you see what was posted on social media, how newspapers and television reported on us, it is pretty impressive. The fact alone that around six million fans watched the final on television. Yeah, it was a winter fairy tale. During the tournament, Germany faced some of the best teams in the World — Finland, Sweden, Canada and Russia. What made Germany so dangerous, and how much of a factor was team spirit? I think we just found our way during the tournament. After the 5-2 loss against Finland, we knew that things couldn't go on like that. We came together as a team and found a way to play as more of a unit. We have terrific guys in the team. It was a lot of fun. We trained well and had lots of opportunities for team building. We were played as a team, and this virtue certainly helped us enormously. Read more: Opinion: German hockey team's strong Olympics comes as no big surprise Let's talk about the final. You were less than a minute away from winning the gold medal. What's it like to experience such an emotional roller coaster? Just before the end of the game it did run through your head that we could actually win the gold medal. But we knew that in Russia we had a very dangerous opponent on the ice. They are capable of changing the outcome of those sorts of games in a matter of seconds. Unfortunately we experienced that first hand. It is of course bitter when you are so close that you can almost see the gold medal before you - and then you give up a goal right at the end. Marcel Noebels (right) couldn't hide his disappointmen after Germany lost the gold medal final It hit me pretty hard. I think that you could see that. There are a lot of emotions involved, but in the end you are unbelievably proud of what you have just achieved. Read more: Opinion: It's a Russian gold medal, even without the flag and anthem What will this winter fairy tale now do for German ice hockey? I hope that this sensational performance will have a deeper impact, that it doesn't simply fade away into memory. I hope that a lot of the children who watched the games, or whose parents watched, will now develop the desire to play ice hockey. This must be our goal. The current public perception is good for the sport. But if it leads to more kids getting interested in ice hockey, maybe we will not have to wait forever for the next winter fairy tale. Marcel Noebels, 25, is a centerman for the Eisbären Berlin of Germany's top professional hockey league, the DEL. He was drafted 118ths overall by the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey League in 2011. The native ot Tönisvorst in western Germany has made 53 appearances for the German national team since in 2011. This interview was conducted by Des Squire. The Games come to a close with a two-hour closing ceremony that saw spectators treated to a show of bright lights, dancing and pop music. The president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), Thomas Bach, used his speech to praise athletes from both South and North Korea, who competed as a united team at these Games, for demonstrating their belief in "a peaceful future." The puck crosses the line in the Olympic gold-medal match between Russia and Germany, the underdogs who surprised everyone by reaching the final. On this occasion, Germany's goalkeeper Danny Aus could do nothing to stop Nikita Gusev from scoring for the Russians. Alina Zagitova stunned her training partner, teammate and world No. 1 Evgenia Medvedeva to take gold in the ladies’ singles figure skating. A record score from the 15-year-old in the short program proved the difference as both scored 156.65 in the free skate. The result meant a first gold for the Olympic Athletes from Russia team and could herald the start of a skating rivalry for the ages. Things couldn't have gone any better for Germany in the men's nordic combined, as Johannes Rydzek took gole, Fabian Riessle silver, and Eric Frenzel captured the bronze medal to complete the sweep. Canada's Scott Moir and Tessa Virtue broke the world record in ice dancing total points with a dynamic, brilliant free dance to win the gold medal at the Pyeongchang Games on Tuesday. The pair also took gold in Vancouver in 2010 and silver in Sochi in 2014. Germany's Francesco Friedrich and brakeman Thorsten Margis thought they had won the gold medal in the two-man bobsleigh. Then Canadians Justin Kripps and Alexander Kopacz turned in an overall time that was exactly the same - meaning that the two teams shared this golden moment - and the medals that went with it. German pilot Nico Walther set a confident gold-medal pace in the opening heats of the men's two-man bobsleigh competition, with he and brakeman crossing the line with a combined time of 38.39 seconds. However, the Germans took the final curve a bit too quickly, causing their sleigh to overturn as they hurtled across the finish line with their helmets scraping along the wall of the ice track. German's Sinan Akdag was left face down on the ice after taking a check to the head by Tommy Kristiansen of Norway during the second period of their preliminary round game, which the Germans went on to win in a penalty shootout - their first win at the Olympics since Salt Lake City in 2002. Akdag was unable to continue in the match and Kristiansen was handed a game misconduct for the offense. Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. In one of the most remarkable Olympic finishes ever, Czech snowboarder Ester Ledecka won gold in the women's Super-G by 0.01 seconds. Having crossed the line, Ledecka looked shocked at her time. "How did that happen," the television cameras overheard her say. A three-month layoff with a knee injury had cast doubts over Japanese superstar Yuzuru Hanyu's appearance at the Olympics. But the "Ice Prince" became the first man to win back-to-back Olympic gold medals in men's singles figure skating since 1952.