As political quantum leaps go, the one Franziska Giffey is about to take is particularly daring. When Chancellor Angela Merkel starts her fourth term on Wednesday, 39-year-old Giffey, a Social Democrat, will assume responsibility for the Ministry of Family Affairs despite having no prior experience at either the state or national level of politics. Giffey only joined the Social Democratic Party (SPD) in 2007, and her political activity has previously been confined to the Neukölln district of Berlin, where she has been mayor since April 2015. She has drawn high marks for her political leadership in a relatively poor part of the capital with a high percentage of immigrants. The district has a somewhat undeserved reputation as a ghetto, and Giffey is seen as someone who is unafraid to take a firm approach. "It's more difficult to run Neukölln than it is to run a ministry," acting SPD chairman Olaf Scholz announced last Friday when introducing Giffey as part of the new cabinet. Giffey's main political experience comes from Berlin's multicultural Neukölln district "I think there are a lot of Neuköllns in Germany facing similar challenges," Giffey said in an interview with German public TV after her nomination. Yet no matter how much the party and the politician play up her practical, on-the-ground experience, the fact remains that it's highly unusual for someone to go directly from the district level to the national spotlight of a federal ministry. To what else does the relatively unknown Giffey owe her surprising promotion? Many voters believe younger is better It doesn't hurt that she's female and was born in formerly communist eastern Germany, ticking two major equality boxes. But perhaps more importantly, she's young. There is a youth movement sweeping through European politics, with figures like France's Emanuel Macron (40 years old), Austria's Sebastian Kurz (31) and Italy's Luigi di Maio (31) inspiring voters, many of whom have been sick of the status quo. With 63-year-old Chancellor Merkel, Germany may seem to be the exception, but dip below the top post and there are signs of rejuvenation in Berlin as well. The only member of the new government who is older than Merkel is 68-year-old incoming Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, and that's by design. When she announced which members of her conservative CDU party would be filling the cabinet posts, the chancellor herself stressed that her picks were all younger than her. Indeed, the median age of the cabinet has dropped from 54 to 49. Political veterans like Hermann Gröhe (56) and Thomas de Maizière (64) are now out. As well as Giffey, new cabinet members include designated Health Minister Jens Spahn (37) and Education Minister Anja Karliczek (46), both conservatives. Merkel's fourth cabinet will be significantly younger than her third one This means that the average age of the most prominent representatives of both of Germany's largest parties is significantly younger than that of the average party member, which is around 60 in both the CDU and the SPD. While the rank and file may be headed towards retirement, the movers and shakers within the parties haven't necessarily even finished university. That, at least, was the case with the 28-year-old head of the SPD youth wing, Kevin Kühnert. He led an unsuccessful but widely respected rebellion against the party leadership that ultimately cost former SPD Chairman Martin Schulz (62) his job. His designated successor, Andrea Nahles, is a political veteran, to be sure, but also one who is 15 years Schulz's junior. Breaking with stereotypes The changing of the guard in German politics – the notable exception being Merkel herself – was prompted by the historically poor showing by both conservatives and Social Democrats in last year's election and the rise of the far-right populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party as an outlet for voters dissatisfied with the state of affairs. But will German politics necessarily be revolutionized by lowering the age of its main purveyors? Spahn is an interesting example. Last year, defying the CDU's traditional opposition to opening the institution of marriage to homosexuals, the 37-year-old voted in the Bundestag to do precisely that. He even tied the knot with his own male partner in December. Yet while not all aspects of his lifestyle may be traditionally conservative, Spahn has staked out a position considerably to the right of Merkel, and has been very critical of the chancellor on refugee policy. In some respects Spahn is a dyed-in-the-wool conservative — in others he's not Conversely, in her tenure as mayor of Neukölln, Giffey was far more law and order than one might expect from a member of the center-left SPD. She beefed up police presence in the district and oversaw an increased number of raids carried out on gaming halls and shisha bars. She also backed having armed security guards in schools and supported a ban on teachers wearing headscarves. "We have to extend our hand in welcome," Giffey said in an interview after her nomination to the next cabinet. "But there are also situations in which we have to say that our hand is a signal to stop." At the same time, Giffey joined protests after an arson attack against a Left Party politician in her district and took an active role in replacing Holocaust memorial "Stumbling Stones" that were stolen from a Neukölln street. A host of new possibilities There's a lot riding on the decision to fast-track the careers of relative youngsters like Giffey and Spahn. Party leaders hope that the infusion of new blood, as well as an increased role for women and local political leaders, will reverse the decline in membership and enthusiasm among voters, and so better counter the populist lure of the AfD. It's a hope that some commentators share. "Franziska Giffey's nomination has been celebrated, but perhaps not enough," wrote the influential weekly newspaper Die Zeit. "With it the SPD has surprisingly opened up a series of political chances." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1Jhwj Other publications have been similarly complimentary. For her part, the incoming minister pledged on Facebook to focus in her new job on "improving early childhood education and day care, fighting violence against women and combating child poverty." There's nothing particularly new about the sorts of promises from politicians where family affairs are concerned. But the expectation on Giffey and the other members of Germany's new political guard is that they will achieve the results that have often eluded their elder predecessors and earn renewed respect and approval for Merkel's next government. If they are perceived to fail, Germany's two biggest political parties – which according to the latest polls can barely muster a majority between them – will likely be in even bigger trouble than they are now. The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. After the SPD and CDU/CSU agreed on a policy blueprint, it became apparent that Sigmar Gabriel would not keep his position as head of the Foreign Ministry. He will be succeeded by former Justice Minister Heiko Maas. Scholz nomination for finance minister had been rumored for weeks. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD. Scholz will also serve as vice-chancellor. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. Heiko Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, but he's now taken over the reigns at the Foreign Ministry. Trained lawyer Katarina Barley will take on the post. She served as both minister of family affairs and minister of labor in 2017 as part of the previous government. Andrea Nahles will step down as labor minister to lead the SPD following Martin Schulz's decision to resign. Her successor, Hubertus Heil, was the surprise announcement when the SPD unveiled its Cabinet ministers. A member of the Bundestag since 1998, Heil has twice served as the party's secretary general. Barbara Hendricks, Germany's outgoing minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. While she may well have liked to stay on in her job, the SPD leadership announced it was seeking a successor. Svenja Schulze will take over, having previously served as minister for innovation, science and research in North Rhine-Westphalia. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Franziska Giffey's elevation from the mayor of Berlin's Neukölln district to Cabinet minister is perhaps the most eye-catching appointment. Giffey will bypass the Bundestag altogether to ascend into the government, but the SPD leadership believes her experience in charge of what has often been described as Berlin's "troubled" district makes her the most suitable candidate for the role. Gerd Müller, 62, has been tapped to retain his position as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. The CSU has thus chosen three men for its Cabinet posts, while Bär will become the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, is to take the Transport Ministry. He has had experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. Author: Carla Bleiker DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.