In a hospital in Eastern Ghouta, Bassam Bakri, an anesthesiologist is describing the suffering. "[Syrian President] Bashar al-Assad is bombing us incessantly," he says. "He’s targeting hospitals and killing children." He describes the shrapnel injuries suffered by the man he had been treating just minutes before. "Ghouta is living underground," he tells DW. "Our hospital has been bombed so we are operating in the basement." Under siege from early 2013, Eastern Ghouta in the Damascus suburbs is one of the Syrian war’s last remaining rebel enclaves. In a final push to regain the territory, the regime has been bombarding it for weeks. According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitor based in the UK, more than 600 people have been killed in the last two weeks. A UN Security Council resolution for a 30-day ceasefire is officially in effect, but Ghouta’s residents say the shelling is continuing. "We don’t believe the regime. Bashar al-Assad is a terrorist," Bassam says of the Syrian president. A mere 3 kilometers (1 mile) from Bassam’s house is the Old City of Damascus. As close as they may be geographically, the views held by Syrians living on the other side are diametrically opposed. A different story just a few kilometers away Ghoufran (left) says the rebels are responsible for the death of her sister Nour Ghoufran Derawan, an English teacher at the Institute of Foreign Languages at Damascus University, lost her sister to a mortar. When the missile struck, she was dining with her 18-month-old son and friends at a restaurant in Bab Touma, a Christian neighborhood just inside the Old City’s historic walls. "Who are the moderate rebels in Ghouta? [They are ] only terrorists," Ghoufran says. "They killed my baby nephew and sister, aren’t they terrorists?" The uprising against the Assad regime may have begun with protests demanding reform and democracy, but the armed revolution is dominated by Islamists. In Eastern Ghouta, the two main groups are Jaysh al-Islam, a Salafi brigade funded by the Saudis, and Faylaq al-Rahman, which is aligned to the Muslim Brotherhood and has been backed by Qatar. Read more: Which rebel groups are fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta? There is also some presence of Ahrar al-Sham, a hard-line Salafi group that is close to Turkey, and even of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, which allegedly still has ties to al Qaeda. Although Faylaq and Jaysh are both taking part in the Geneva peace process, sponsored by the United Nations, their ideologies and allies make it easy for the secular residents of Damascus to doubt their claims to be moderate. Read more: Opinion: Hell on Earth rages in Syria's eastern Ghouta, while the world watches Children suffering most in Eastern Ghouta Ghoufran refuses to consider even the possibility that whatever the ideology of its enemies, it is the autocratic government that is most responsible for plunging Syria into chaos. The relentless bombing has battered the suburb beyond recognition. "The terrorists are not letting the civilians get out and we want the world powers to ensure the civilians are evacuated," she adds, in line with the regime's position. Bassam disagrees. He doesn’t mind Saudi and Qatari money and instead calls them allies. Bassam admits the women in his town wear hijab but rejects Ghoufran’s assertion that this is a form of oppression. He says women are free to work and that wearing hijab is a part of their religion. He questions the suggestion that he must leave his home, his surroundings, and where he was born and opt for a life of destitution in a refugee camp — if not execution at the hands of the regime. Before the government siege began in 2013, Ghouta was home to two million people. Fearing for their safety, hundreds of thousands left and joined millions of those internally displaced and the refugees heading to Turkey and Jordan, and ultimately Europe. Now, there are about 350,000-400,000 people in Eastern Ghouta struggling to survive. Bassam’s family of six, comprising his mother, his wife and three children, survived on goods smuggled through tunnels leading to Damascus. "Two months ago the Syrian army bombed the tunnels," he said. His family began to starve. "My children get food once a day or once in two days." Bassam says the Assad regime is deliberately targeting hospitals and killing children For Ghoufran, the blame lies with the opposition. She accuses them of using children for propaganda. Playing the blame game When DW visited the Old City last year, bars and restaurants were up and running in Bab Touma. A group of youngsters were worried they could be hit by the sporadic rebel mortar fire and were recounting a similar "us versus them — terrorists versus Syrians" story. In the middle of the night, the regime had launched a volley of rockets toward Jobar in Eastern Ghouta’s towns, effectively violating the de-escalation zone. For the young boys and girls, the regime’s actions were acceptable — the right fight justified to end terrorism and the war. Six months later, via encrypted communications, Ghoufran shared their views. She, like others, isn’t unsympathetic to the plight of fellow Syrians in Ghouta, but appears to be unaware of the extent of it. Bassam agrees that Ghoufran is a victim of the war too. But he rejects the idea that the local rebels killed her sister just as much as she refuses to blame the regime for Ghouta's plight. If and when the war is over, it is hard to see how these two neighbors will reconcile. More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel