"For me it is all about fairness. That is what I have been fighting for my entire political career. And that is what I stand for." That is how Heiko Maas describes himself on his website. The characterization is perfect for a justice minister. But, after four years, the Social Democrat will leave that post to become Germany's new top diplomat. That does not mean he has to jettison his stance. A confident and opinionated politician, he will have to exhibit much more verbal restraint than he has in the past. One wrong word in his new position would be more likely to unleash unforeseen consequences than in other political posts. Maas is not someone who shoots off his mouth without thinking. Nevertheless, his resolute nature has made him a repeated target of criticism from the right-wing AfD and the Pegida movement. This was the case most recently when he pushed through a new law against hate speech on social media sites as justice minister. Defending his decision against accusations of censorship and insults that he was a traitor, Maas pointed to the insidious effect of hate speech on social cohesion: "This is the end of our democracy's culture of intellectual debate." This is also a concern he is likely to have on the international stage in his new role as foreign minister. For beyond Germany's borders, populists not only hold seats in parliaments, they also run governments. Maas will have to be prepared to hear shrill tones emanating from capitals like Ankara, Budapest and Warsaw. Read more - Germany's SPD announces its ministers in next Merkel government Snappy tweets from a foreign minister are taboo German politicians have recently been accused of using "Nazi methods" from such foreign powers. Should similar indiscretions be thrown around in the future – from wherever they may come –  Maas will have to refrain from sending out sharp retorts via Twitter. Actor Natalia Wörner is at home on the dramatic stage, her partner Maas on the political one The fact that he and his team recognize the value of the messaging service is evidenced by his more than 4,000 tweets in office, as well as his more than 250,000 followers. And those followers see him as a straight-talking politician when he gets to typing statements like: "The high number of attacks on refugees is a mark of shame for our country." Up to the challenge Such straight talk suggests the world can expect a German foreign minister that sees solving society's problems as a sporting challenge. It is fitting therefore that Maas is also a passionate triathlete. Whether or not he will find time to swim, run and bike while traveling the globe remains to be seen. He did, however, exhibit his powers of self-discipline when balancing his time-consuming career, his private life and his sporting endeavors while serving as justice minister. Nonetheless, that balance was disrupted in 2016, when the father of two boys left his wife of 15 years for actress Natalia Wörner. Heiko Maas' fondness for fine clothing has also been a topic of media discussion in the past – his mother was a seamstress and his father a career soldier. That might help explain why sartorial confidence and clear statements have always been part of the new foreign minister's repertoire. Three defeats running for Saarland's top spot Maas began his political career in 1996 when he became the secretary of state for the southwestern German state of Saarland under Oskar Lafontaine. Two years later, he was named Saarland's environmental minister. At age 32, it made him the youngest minister in Germany. That quick ascent ended with his first taste of defat in 1999, when the Social Democratic Party (SPD) lost state elections and with it, Maas his ministry. Nevertheless, he was able to polish his political skills and make a name for himself as the state's opposition leader. Maas' proclivity for high endurance sports has earned him a reputation as a minister who can perservere In 2000, he was elected SPD state party chairman in Saarland as well as a member of the party's federal executive board. His party ascent was dampened, however, by two clear defeats campaigning for Saarland's top job of state premier. In 2004 and 2009, that spot went to Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Despite a third defeat in 2012, Maas did become Saarland's minister of economic affairs as part of a CDU/SPD coalition, during which time he also served as vice premier. The following year Maas became a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's Cabinet as justice minister. At 47, he was one of the youngest members of the chancellor's Cabinet and made his mark early as a champion of freedom and civil rights. And he was more than willing to butt heads with Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere (CDU) over those issues, especially when it came to his resistance to collecting and storing citizens' telecommunications data. Changing his stance on data collection Ultimately, Maas changed his stance on the topic after a number of Islamic terror attacks were carried out across Europe. Not least of all, pressure from within his own party led him to become an advocate for the collection and retention of electronic communications data, even in cases in which there was no suspicion of criminal activity. That change of heart led critics to brand him a "flip-flopper." In the wake of further attacks, among them one on a Berlin Christmas market in 2016, Maas called for even stricter security legislation. Among his proposals was a call for electronic ankle monitors to be worn by people deemed "a threat" and suspected of being capable of carrying out future attacks. A spate of recent concessions to conservatives do not appear to have tarnished Maas' generally positive image. If they had, neither the SPD nor Chancellor Merkel would entrust him with running the Foreign Ministry. Maas is apparently one of those rare politicians, who, despite suffering many setbacks, always seems to wind up winning in the end. The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. After the SPD and CDU/CSU agreed on a policy blueprint, it became apparent that Sigmar Gabriel would not keep his position as head of the Foreign Ministry. He will be succeeded by former Justice Minister Heiko Maas. Scholz nomination for finance minister had been rumored for weeks. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD. Scholz will also serve as vice-chancellor. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. Heiko Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, but he's now taken over the reigns at the Foreign Ministry. Trained lawyer Katarina Barley will take on the post. She served as both minister of family affairs and minister of labor in 2017 as part of the previous government. Andrea Nahles will step down as labor minister to lead the SPD following Martin Schulz's decision to resign. Her successor, Hubertus Heil, was the surprise announcement when the SPD unveiled its Cabinet ministers. A member of the Bundestag since 1998, Heil has twice served as the party's secretary general. Barbara Hendricks, Germany's outgoing minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. While she may well have liked to stay on in her job, the SPD leadership announced it was seeking a successor. Svenja Schulze will take over, having previously served as minister for innovation, science and research in North Rhine-Westphalia. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Franziska Giffey's elevation from the mayor of Berlin's Neukölln district to Cabinet minister is perhaps the most eye-catching appointment. Giffey will bypass the Bundestag altogether to ascend into the government, but the SPD leadership believes her experience in charge of what has often been described as Berlin's "troubled" district makes her the most suitable candidate for the role. Gerd Müller, 62, has been tapped to retain his position as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. The CSU has thus chosen three men for its Cabinet posts, while Bär will become the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, is to take the Transport Ministry. He has had experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. Author: Carla Bleiker 