Slovakia's president, Andrej Kiska, has said there was no way back for the government following the murder of investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancee. "There's a huge public distrust of the state," he said during Sunday's televised tribute to Kuciak. "And many don't trust law enforcement authorities ... This distrust is justified. We crossed the line, things went too far and there's no way back." Read more: Slovak journalist Jan Kuciak's murder sparks EU reactions The president said he would host talks with the leaders of Slovakia's political parties to discuss his proposed government shake-up. "I can see two solutions: a profound change to government or early elections," he said. Kuciak's murder has shaken Slovakia, and has raised fresh concern about the state of media freedom and corruption in the country and Europe more generally. The investigative journalist was working on a report highlighting the links between Slovakia's political elite and the Italian mafia when he and his fiancee were shot dead in their home near Bratislava on February 25. Kuciak's employer posthumously published his last article this week, which revealed ties between Prime Minister Robert Fico's inner circle and individuals wanted in Italy for mafia-related crimes. Authorities subsequently detained several Italian businessmen named by Kuciak, but released them all on Saturday due to lack of evidence. Fico dismisses calls for new start Despite facing a wave of anger for his party's part in the Kuciak's findings, Fico rejected Kiska's appeals for a new political start in the country and accused the president of "lining up with the opposition." "We are not going to dance on the graves of these two young people," Fico said. "If there needs to be a change of government, that will be the result of agreement within the coalition and, in that case, the constitution of the Republic of Slovakia foresees no role for the president." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tUlk Two of Fico's close associates were forced to resign in the wake of Kuciak's final article, while one minister quit in protest. Should Fico resign, then the government would fall. New elections can be triggered with the support of three-fifths of lawmakers. The government can also ask for a confidence vote in parliament, where a simple majority would suffice. Read more: Slain Slovak journalist was targeted by Italian mafia, says colleague Fico has in the past described journalists as "dirty, anti-Slovak prostitutes" and used terms like "plain, silly hyenas" and "slimy snakes" to describe the media. Nevertheless, following the murder of Kuciak, his government has sworn its commitment to the "protection of freedom of speech and the safety of journalists." Around 20,000 Slovaks have rallied in the capital, Bratislava, in sub-zero temperatures for murdered investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his girlfriend, Martina Kusnirova. Their deaths have shaken the country and led to calls for the government of Prime Minister Robert Fico to bring the killers to justice. Marching behind a banner saying "An attack on journalists = an attack on all of us," many people walked in silence, holding candles. Others held up photographs of the two victims, both 27, who were shot dead in their Bratislava home in last weekend. Kuciak was the first journalist to be killed in Slovakia, according to Reporters Without Borders. He was about to publish an article exposing alleged links between the Italian mafia and businessmen operating in eastern Slovakia. His unfinished investigation was published posthumously on Wednesday. Slovak police on Thursday detained several Italian businessmen named by Kuciak in his report, which contained allegations of abuse of EU subsidies and other fraud. One man mentioned in the article had alleged ties to people working for the prime minister. The case has put mounting pressure on Fico, with some protesters calling for his government to resign. Similar marches were also held in more than 20 other Slovak cities, as well as in London, Paris and Brussels. Above, people light candles in memory of Kuciak in front of the Slovak embassy in the Czech capital, Prague. Kuciak's death has fueled public anger over media freedom and graft in Slovakia. Transparency International ranks the country as the seventh most corrupt EU member. "We live in a mafia state," student Jan Kubis told AFP. "They were not much older than I am. Something must change in Slovakia." Kuciak and his girlfriend, Martina Kusnirova, had planned to get married in May. Kusnirova was laid to rest in her wedding gown during a ceremony on Friday in the northern Slovak town of Gregorovce. Kuciak's funeral will be held on Saturday in Stiavnik, near the Czech border. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/cmk (AP, dpa, Reuters, AFP)