It looks like Jimi Hendrix's musical heritage is an inexhaustible source of material. Since his death in September 1970, a total of 25 live albums, 27 compilations, 23 official bootlegs, 12 studio albums and several singles, EPs and collaborations have been released — and those numbers are bound to keep growing. It however wasn't easy to get the material published. Jimi Hendrix, who died aged 27, did not leave a will. It was difficult to determine who owns the rights to the estate. Jimi Hendrix's legacy fell victim to numerous lawsuits and family quarrels. Meanwhile, a part of the family has established a company dealing with the legendary guitarist's legacy. Now yet another posthumous Jimi Hendrix album, titled "Both Sides of The Sky," hits the stores on Friday. It contains 13 songs, including 10 previously unreleased tracks and three previously anthologized outtakes. It is the last part of the trilogy featuring significant studio recordings from the guitarist's archives, and just like the two earlier records, the release is highly anticipated by Hendrix's fans. Read more: Jimi Hendrix's London home turned into museum Topping the charts half a century after his death The songs on "Both Sides of the Sky" come from the period after Hendrix's final album, "Electric Ladyland," which came out in 1968. It was a productive era, even though most songs the American guitarist composed at the time were left unfinished. England, 1966: Jimi Hendrix, drummer Mitch Mitchell (left) and bassist Noel Redding as the newly formed The Jimi Hendrix Experience. Their first album was released a year later, and "Are You Experienced" climbed to number two in the UK Charts, just behind the Beatles's – who were Hendrix fans — "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band." Off to the US, where Hendrix played alongside the Animals, Janis Joplin, The Who and various other top acts at the Monterey Pop Festival in June 1967 to a crowd of 90,000 – many more than the expected 10,000 festival goers. Hendrix's wild show included smashing and burning a guitar. As the "Los Angeles Times" put it, Jimi left the stage having "graduated from rumor to legend." A guitar was more than just an instrument to Jimi Hendrix – it was also a playground and a sex object. Left-handed, Hendrix had his right-handed guitars restrung with the bass string on top. It changed everything, becoming the basis of his signature sound. Playing with his teeth or tongue was just one of the many ways he expressed his unique style. August 1969. Jimi Hendrix was the headliner, and scheduled to play the grand finale on Sunday evening at the Woodstock festival. For various reasons, it was Monday morning before he came on stage. Most of the 500,000 visitors had already left. Undeterred, Hendrix played a legendary two hour set — and the best solo of his life on "Star Spangled Banner." September 1970. Wet and stormy weather delayed Jimi's performance at the "Love & Peace" festival on the Baltic Sea island of Fehmarn. 25,000 fans were miffed and many booed as he walked on stage a day late. Jimi's response: "Boo, boo....I don´t give a fuck if you boo, as long as you boo in key....you mothers." The weather cleared, and Jimi played another epic 90 minute set. Fehmarn was Jimi Hendrix' last big live concert. On September 17, he performed with Eric Burdon & War in a club in London. In his hotel room later that night, he couldn't sleep. He resorted to a fatal mix: a bottle of wine and a lot of sleeping pills. Jimi Hendrix choked on his own vomit and died of asphyxia. He was laid to rest in his home town of Seattle on October 1, 1970. Author: Silke Wünsch (db) The first batch of the abandoned material surfaced in 2010 on "Valleys Of Neptune," which topped charts in 15 countries. The second title of the series, "People, Hell And Angels" from 2013, even surpassed its predecessor in sales and placed second on the Billboard 200 charts, making it the second most successful Hendrix album after "Electric Ladyland," and the 2013 album's first single, "Somewhere," became the most successful Hendrix single to date. Old recordings remastered The final volume of the trilogy was produced by Eddie Kramer, John McDermott and co-produced by Janie Hendrix, the late musician's step-sister, who were also responsible for the preceding two posthumous records. Their objective was to provide to the fans the musician's recordings in the best possible quality. "Both Sides of the Sky" is now available on CD, 180 gram double vinyl or as a digital download. Although his dad tried get him to switch, Jimi Hendrix strummed his guitar with his left hand. He was able to play the other way around, though - and ate and wrote with his right hand. He famously played a right-handed Fender Stratocaster flipped over and restrung. On Left-Handers' Day, DW presents other musicians who've made it big - despite being left-handed, or precisely because of it. Black Sabbath guitarist Tony Iommi (left) gave heavy metal its riffs. Iommi always played left-handed, which is almost a miracle: He lost his ring and middle finger tips at the age of 17 in an industrial accident. He could have switched hands, but "decided to make do with what I had, and I made some plastic fingertips for myself. I just persevered with it," he told "Guitar World" in 2008. Nirvana idol Kurt Cobain mostly played with his left hand - here on an inverted right-handed guitar. Once in a while he would pound Dave Grohl's right-handed drum kit. Cobain was a right-hander - and why he played guitar with the left is a mystery. His last words were written with his right hand: "I don't have the passion anymore, and so remember, it's better to burn out than to fade away." Sir Paul McCartney is a virtuoso on almost any instrument. He plays almost all with his left hand - like on his legendary Höfner 500/1 bass. One exception: He plays a right-handed drum kit. After the Beatles dissolved in 1970, McCartney continued solo and with his band Wings. Ringo Starr is a lefty too, but plays his drums like a righty. Any drum set can easily be rearranged for left-handed play, simply by mirroring the arrangement of all the pieces. Starr's left-handed activities limited themselves, however, to off-stage. Phil Collins plays drums, and everything else, left-handed. That means he has the hi-hat cymbal on his right - and played with his left hand - and kicks the bass with his left foot. The musician from London became famous with progressive rock band Genesis. When he was younger, the Beatles were among his idols - he saw lefties play from early on. Blink-182 have done a lot to boost punk rock's image. Move over Sex Pistols, here comes the pop punk of the 90s. Travis Barker is the tattooed, flamboyant drummer, and he's a southpaw. One could says he's a non-conformist through and through - except that he plays a right-handed drum set. Elizabeth Cotten, an Afro-American blues singer, played in an unusual way: She simply took a right-handed guitar and turned it around - without reversing the strings. She is one of the few guitarists to have played the bass strings at the bottom with her fingers and stroke the melody with her thumb. Playing this way is therefore called "cotten picking." Charlie Chaplin fled London's poverty early and emigrated to the States. There he reached fame with his short movies, including "The Vagabond" in 1916. In it, he plays the violin with his left hand. Privately he also played violin and cello quite well, always bowing with his left. "Every spare moment away from the studio is devoted to this instrument," read a press release from 1917. Born in Buenos Aires, Daniel Barenboim learned piano from the masters of his day and is one of the world's most respected conductors. He is also founder of the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra - the only joint Israeli-Palestinian orchestra. Since 1992 he has been the director of the Berlin State Opera - where the left-hander picks up the baton with his right hand. Author: Christoph Trost