Turkey has requested that Sweden detain and extradite Syrian Kurdish leader Saleh Muslim, according to broadcaster NTV, which quoted Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu. It is the third time Turkey has requested a foreign country to arrest Muslim. Turkey has previously asked both the Czech Republic and Germany to extradite the Kurdish leader, who used to head the PYD, Syria's main Kurdish party. He was detained in Prague last week at Turkey's request but later released. Read more: Turkish extradition requests According to Turkey, Muslim, who attended a demonstration over the weekend in Berlin against Ankara's military offensive in the Kurdish-enclave Afrin, is responsible for several deadly attacks in Ankara in February and March 2016. German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said the case would be looked at thoroughly and a decision would be made in accordance with the law. Cavusoglu called on Gabriel to lift an advisory regarding travel to Turkey On Wednesday, Cavusoglu accused Germany of becoming a "safe haven" for the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) as well as the Gulen movement. Turkey blames the Gulen movement for a failed 2016 coup. Turkey's attempts to change views of PKK Turkey has also long complained about what it calls Germany's lax attitude towards the PKK. Ankara, the European Union and the United States have categorized the PKK as a terrorist organization. The group has been fighting for an independent Kurdish state for decades. On Tuesday, Cavusoglu also called on Gabriel to revoke Berlin's travel warning for Germans headed to Turkey. "The last warning that we have seen does not reflect the reality in Turkey and the state of bilateral relations," said Cavusoglu. After German rights activist Peter Steudtner was detained in Turkey, the Foreign Ministry issued a warning to its citizens in July over a risk of arbitrary arrest throughout Turkey. German rights activist Peter Steudtner was taken into custody in Turkey and later released months later As a result, the number of European tourists to Turkey declined sharply. Gabriel said a repeal of the travel warning would depend on changes to Turkey's security situation. Steudtner was released from police custody in October. av/sms (Reuters, DPA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.