Tens of thousands of Slovaks staged anti-government protests in Bratislava and several other cities on Friday to call for early elections and justice for slain journalist Jan Kuciak. The 27-year-old and his fiancee were found shot dead in their home last month. He had been working on an investigation into high-level corruption and alleged mafia links to politicians in Slovakia. The killings have reignited debate about corruption and press freedom in the country, triggering the biggest anti-government demonstrations since the collapse of communism. Read more: Mafia ties and journalist's murder threaten to bring down government Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uG6V Fico resigns Facing mounting pressure, Prime Minister Robert Fico announced his resignation on Thursday and handed over power to his deputy and fellow Smer party member Peter Pellegrini. That move, which will keep his three-party coalition in power and avoid snap polls, has angered many Slovaks who believe Fico will still be in a position to call the shots. Read more: Opinion: Slovak PM Robert Fico's resignation just for show "Coalition leaders are clinging to power at any cost," rally organizer Karolina Farska told a crowd of some 50,000 people in Bratislava. This "proves that they want to sweep all the corruption cases under the rug — the cases that the slain Jan Kuciak was writing about." Read more: Fico will 'still pull strings' as protests intensify Slovakia has witnessed its largest protest since anti-communism rallies in 1989, with an estimated 50,000 gathering in the capital, Bratislava. The reason: the murder of investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancée. Their murders sent shockwaves across the country and the EU. Kuciak was working on a story linking businessmen operating in the country with the Italian Mafia before his death. The protesters have demanded Prime Minister Robert Fico and the rest of his government resign. According to Kuciak's last unfinished story, one of the businessmen had worked with two people who worked in Fico's office. Although the men have resigned and denied any links, Slovak citizens are frustrated at the government's failure to tackle corruption in the country, chanting "Enough of Fico." Kuciak's murder has pushed growing frustration to a fever-pitch, with protesters saying the government can't be trusted to properly investigate the crime. "Politicians in power have lost our trust," said one of the protesters. "We don't trust them to guarantee an independent investigation. They have failed to investigate all previous scandals." Slovak President Andrej Kiska, considered a political rival of the prime minister, said the country is facing a crisis of trust. He has called on the government to reconfigure its three-party coalition or face early elections. But that's not what protesters have demanded. Instead, demonstrators have called for a "new trustworthy government." Analysts believe Fico is unlikely to make out of the ensuing political crisis. Martin Slosiarik of the Focus polling agency told Reuters news agency. "Kuciak's last story has had a serious impact on people's trust in the system of government, and the murder of two young people has added a strong moral aspect," said Slosiarik. ls/sms (Reuters, dpa) Protests were held in around 35 towns and cities across Slovakia on Friday, with many participants braving rainy conditions as they chanted "Early elections!" and "Enough of Fico." Earlier on Friday, Pellegrini said he believes his government will "calm the situation in our country." Police say Kuciak's death was "most likely" related to his investigation into alleged ties between Slovak politicians and Italy's 'Ndrangheta mafia. Although they have questioned dozens of suspects, no one has been charged over the killings. nm/kms (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.