The first direct flight from Australia to the United Kingdom has landed at Heathrow airport on Sunday morning. The Qantas flight departed from the western Australian city of Perth, cutting about three hours off the travel time to Europe, by not having stopovers in Asia or the Middle East. Read more: MH370 questions as 'plane wreckage' turns up off Thai coast The 17-hour flight, operated by a Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner, covered a distance of more than 9,000 miles (14,484 km). The flight marked a "historic day for aviation," said Qantas Chief Executive Alan Joyce. " From today it will be the first link between Australia and Europe that has ever occurred non-stop in aviation. We are so excited." The old "Kangaroo Route" from Sydney to London 70 years ago had seven stopovers and took four days. This flight traveled at around 900 kilometers per hour and used 20 percent less fuel than similar sized airplanes. Mena Rawlings, Britain's high commissioner to Australia, decribed the new service as a "game-changer." "To have the opportunity to get on a plane at Heathrow and step out in Perth is just phenomenally exciting and I'm sure we are going to see lots and lots of people taking advantage of that." Read more: Foot exercises on the go The crew of Qantas' first direct flight from Perth to London The world's longest flights cl/ng (AFP,dpa, Reuters) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The plane tail's of of Australia's national airline Qantas are embellished with a stylized kangaroo, hence the nickname "the Flying Kangaroo"! Even from a far distance, it's easy to tell which continent the plane comes from. After all, kangaroos only exist in Australia. This animal has become a sort of national logo, appearing not only on planes but also on Australia's coat of arms and currency. In contrast to its Australian counterpart, the logo of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is more factual. The abstract symbol of a crown in combination with the three letters KLM leaves no doubt as to which country this plane comes from. And that's what logos are all about. The tiny West African state is a paradise for birds and their friends. More than 500 different kinds of birds live in the Gambia. Tourists don't even need to take birdwatching trips because many birds can be spotted in hotel gardens — they're just everywhere! Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Gambian national airline went for a bird as its logo when it was founded in 2012. Service ceased in 2014. The Seattle-based airline has proved its creativity on several occasions during its 90-year-long history. The company was among the first airlines to sell tickets online and to offer online and automatic check-ins. Like its name, the logo of the airline refers to Alaska and its indigenous inhabitants, the Eskimos. A trade embargo and political tensions between 1980 and 2016 made it hard for Iran's state airline with headquarters at Tehran's Mehrabad airport to modernize its planes. But maybe the "homa," the mythological bird used in the logo, came to the rescue of the airline. According to Persian mythology, "homa" is believed to bring luck and joy while living its life entirely in the sky. Over the years Tanzania's national airline has also had to face numerous challenges. Sometimes its fleet was in the air, sometimes not, and the airline's owners also frequently changed. It's certainly not the fault of the giraffe logo. The world's tallest animal looks so friendly and inviting on the plane that what passenger could say no to stepping onboard for a trip to Mount Kilimanjaro? A crane has bserved as the logo of Germany's largest airline since 1918. Some types of cranes cover enormous distances when they migrate, but others are considered pests due to their enormous appetites. Lufhansa is now flying into the future with a new logo design. The symbol will be the same, but the colors will change. Goodbye yellow and gray, hello simple white and blue! Author: Conny Paul (ad)