Greek authorities on Saturday said at least 16 migrants died when their boat capsized in the Aegean Sea, marking one of the deadliest disasters since the EU and Turkey struck a controversial deal to stem a wave of migration in 2016. The boat went down near the Greek island of Agathonissi with up to 22 people on board, according to authorities. At least six children were also killed in the tragic incident. "We can't tolerate to lose children in the Aegean Sea … the solution is to protect people, to implement safe procedures and safe routes for migrants and refugees, to hit the human trafficking circuits," said Greek Migration Minister Dimitris Vitsas. Migrant deal The incident comes days after the EU unlocked €3 billion ($3.7 billion) for Turkey, the second payment under a deal that witnessed the number of migrants making the deadly crossing across the Aegean drop significantly. Under the deal, the EU agreed to pay out billions of euros to Turkey to support Syrian refugees in the Anatolian country. It also allowed the EU to return failed asylum seekers to Turkey in exchange for the bloc taking in refugees on a one-for-one basis. Read more: EU funds Turkish health centers to help Syrian refugees Before closing the so-called Balkan route in early 2016, a significant portion of migrants arriving in the bloc departed from Turkey's Aegean coast. 'Disaster' The deal has been dubbed a success by European leaders. After negotiating the deal in 2016, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said it would "end the business model of people smugglers and contribute to securing the EU's external borders." Read more: Refugee children making a new life in Germany Frontex, the EU's border management agency, recorded in 2017 the lowest number of detected illegal border crossings since the migration crisis peaked two years prior. In 2015, more than one million migrants entered the EU, many of them fleeing conflict and extreme poverty in the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. But human rights groups have criticized the deal, saying it has been a "disaster" for migrants affected by it. "It is disingenuous in the extreme that European leaders are touting the EU-Turkey deal as a success while closing their eyes to the unbearably high cost to those suffering the consequences," said Amnesty International's Gauri van Gulik in a statement last year. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticised by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/rc (AFP, Reuters, dpa)