Former Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe on Thursday said he was ousted from power by a "coup d'etat" in an interview conducted by South African broadcaster SABC, marking his first media appearance since he left office in November. The 94-year-old Zimbabwean, once dubbed the longest-ruling leader alive, was forced to step down last year after a military intervention prompted mass protests and his own political party launched impeachment proceedings against him. Here's what Mugabe said: Mugabe led Zimbabwe after independence from the UK in 1980 Why does this matter: In November, Zimbabwe's military placed Mugabe under house arrest, saying it was implementing a "national democratic project." Although many Zimbabweans celebrated Mugabe's departure, some remain skeptical of the military's involvement. "The situation has not changed since they removed Mugabe," businessman Munyaradzi Chihota told AFP news agency. "(Mugabe) is 100 percent right that this was a military coup, that this country has been turned into a military state – and that this has to be undone." Since Mugabe's resignation, his former confidant Emmerson Mnangagwa has become interim president. Read more: Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai 'has left big shoes to fill' What happens next: Polls are slated for August. It will be Mnangagwa's first electoral test after taking over from Mugabe. According to analysts, Mugabe is unlikely to make a comeback. But they believe he has an invested interest in determining the future political landscape of the country. Read more: Exclusive: Zimbabwe's new opposition leader Nelson Chamisa "In the back of his mind, (Mugabe) still sees himself as part of the problem and part of the solution," Gideo Chitanga of the Johannesburg-based think tank Political Economy Southern Africa, told AFP. In November, Robert Mugabe dismissed his vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, after accusing him of "plotting a coup against the government." Some Zimbabweans feared Mugabe was grooming his wife, Grace Mugabe, to take over in the event of his death. On November 13, 2017, General Constantino Chiwenga, commander of Zimbabwe's Defense Force, warned that the army could "step in" to save the country from political tension and economic crisis. Military and armored vehicles were seen at the outskirts of Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, on November 14, 2017. On the same day, the military also took over the state-run broadcaster ZBC. On November 15, 2017, Major General SB Moyo, the military spokesman, announced on the ZBC that Mugabe and his family were "safe and sound and their security was guaranteed." He said the military was targeting "criminals around" Mugabe who were "committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering." On November 16, 2017, General Constantino Chiwenga, along with other officials, was seen in military uniform meeting President Robert Mugabe (C) at the State House. It was reported that Mugabe was smiling as they both shook hands. However, the leaders of ZANU-PF announced that there was "no going back." After being placed under house arrest, Mugabe appeared publicly at a university graduation ceremony on November 17, 2017. Here, a military officer adjusts a chair for Mugabe, who is dressed in a blue-and-yellow academic gown, to sit on after arriving to preside over the ceremony. Mugabe, who was reportedly tired, was then caught falling asleep. On November 18, 2017, residents of the capital, Harare, held a protest with anti-Mugabe placards demanding the president's resignation. Veterans of the independence war, activists and ruling party leaders called publicly for Mugabe to be forced from office. Zimbabwean War Veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa (R) arrived at a meeting of the ruling ZANU-PF party in Harare November 19, 2017. After hours of deliberation, the party announced that it had decided to fire Mugabe as leader of the party. Many expected that after being recalled as ZANU-PF party leader, President Mugabe would use his address to the nation resign with dignity. Zimbabweans were left shocked after the rambling speech made no reference to him stepping down. Mugabe now faces impeachment, with proceedings believed to be starting on Tuesday. Rather than face impeachment proceedings, Robert Mugabe prompted dancing in the streets of Harare when he resigned on November 22. "My decision to resign is voluntary on my part and arises from my concern for the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and my desire for a smooth, non-violent transfer of power," the 93-year-old said in a letter. Supporters of Emmerson Mnangagwa celebrate the end of four decades under Mugabe. Mnangagwa was joined by cheering crowds after he returned to Zimbabwe from exile in neighboring South Africa. He is expected to be sworn in on November 24. Author: Merga Yonas Bula ls/kms (AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.