Italian police on Thursday arrested five Tunisians suspected of being part of a terror network tied to Anis Amri, who killed 12 people in a truck ramming attack at a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. Amri, a rejected asylum seeker from Tunisia, was shot and killed by police in Milan four days after the Berlin attack claimed by the "Islamic State." One of the five Tunisian nationals arrested in the city of Latina, south of Rome, is suspected of having planned to provide false documents to get Amri out of Italy, police said. Read more: Germany: How do terrorist groups compare? In the wake of the Berlin attack, German authorities came faced intense criticism after it emerged Amri used multiple fake documents and should have been deported to Tunisia. The anti-terror raids were carried out in Rome, Latina, Naples and other cities. Reuters cited security forces as saying that the five Tunisians were not suspected of directly participating in the Berlin truck attack, nor were they imminently preparing one in Italy. Italian authorities have carried out numerous counterterrorism operations this month, including one on Wednesday that led to the arrest of an Italian citizen of Moroccan origin suspected of planning a knife attack or truck ramming. On Tuesday, police arrested what they said was a radical Islamic preacher indoctrinating young children in Foggia. Interior Minister Marco Minniti has put security service on high alert for potential terror plots targeting tourist hotspots and other busy areas. Italy is one of the few major European countries to be spared a large-scale terror attack in recent years. cw/kms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) A man fatally stabs two women in the Marseille train station. The perpetrator, Ahmed Hanachi, is shot dead by police on patrol. IS claims responsibility for the attack in a post on its news agency Amaq. In it, they call Hanachi one of the group's "soldiers." Two Interior Ministry officials resign after it is revealed that Hanachi was an undocumented immigrant who they had failed to detain. A gunman open fires on police on the Champs-Elysees, Paris' most iconic boulevard. One police officer is killed and two individuals are injured before police shoot the gunman dead. A note praising IS is found next to the gunman's body. The terrorist group also claims responsibility. The attack occurs just days before the first round of the French presidential election. Security is tightened. Soldiers shoot and serevely injury a knife-weilding man outside the Louvre museum in Paris after he assails them. One soldier is lightly injured. The attacker had two further machetes in his backpack. A subsequent investigation reveals that the Egyptian national had traveled to France from Dubai on a valid tourist visa. A Twitter account associated with the man's name refers to IS in posts. Two teens enter a church in Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, Normandy and slit the throat of an 85-year-old priest in front of five parishioners. Police shoot the 19-year-olds dead as they try to leave. IS takes responsibility and publishes a video of the teens pledging allegiance to the group. Many French Muslims attend the next Sunday's mass to show solidarity with Catholics and condemn the attack. On Bastille Day, France's national holiday, a truck drives through crowds in Nice that had gathered to watch the fireworks on a major beachside promenade. Before being shot dead by police, the driver kills 86 and injuries more than 400 others. IS claims responsibility, stating that the attacker had responded to IS calls to target civilians living of coalition nations fighting IS in Syria and Iraq. It is France's most deadly terror attack: IS jihadis armed with automatic weapons and explosives undertake coordinated attacks in Paris including at the Bataclan concert hall, the national stadium and various street cafes. The mass shootings and suicide bombings kill 130 people, injuring hundreds more. IS claims responsibility. Then-President Francois Hollande says it is an act of war by IS. A deadly attack is averted: on a high-speed train from Amsterdam to Paris, a man open fires with an assualt rifle that subsequently jams. Other train passengers tackle the man, preventing deadly violence. Four are injured including the attacker. The assailant had been known to French security officials for past drug-related activities and statements in defense of radical Islamist violence. Yassin Salhi beheads his boss, covering the head in Arabic and placing it on the gate outside the US-based industrial gas company Air Productions, located near Lyon. He also tries to blow up the factory by driving his van into the gas cylinders. The intent fails but unleashes a smaller explosion, injuring two. French authorities claim links between the man and IS. He commits suicide in prison. First, two men with automatic guns storm the offices of satire magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 12 and wounding 12 others. A different gunman kills a police officer the next day, then four more during a hostage-taking on the 9th in a kosher grocery. Police eventually shoot all three gunmen dead, but not before they claim allegiance to IS and al-Qaida. Many demonstrate solidarity with those killed. Author: Cristina Burack Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.