Thousands of civilians fled their homes in Syria on Friday as separate offensives near the capital, Damascus, and in the northern city of Afrin intensified. More than 2,400 civilians left eastern Ghouta east of Damascus as government forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and backed by Russian and Iran pushed further into the rebel-held enclave. More than 12,000 people had evacuated the area on Thursday. Russian airstrikes on Friday killed at least 80 civilians, including 14 children, the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. Around 1,350 people have died in eastern Ghouta since the offensive began in mid-February. The UN estimates that up to 400,000 people are still trapped in the area. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the UN was ready to bring humanitarian aid to those in need as soon as warring parties provided access. Read more: Which rebel groups are fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta? The Syrian government's offensive is centered on eastern Ghouta near Damascus Three Islamist zones The government said it had retaken around 70 percent of eastern Ghouta that had been under rebel control. The offensive has split eastern Ghouta into three zones, each controlled by a different Islamist group. All three said in a joint statement they would enter ceasefire talks for the area with Russia in Geneva, but Moscow, they said, refused the offer. Read more: What foreign powers want from the Syrian war More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel Anguish in Afrin In northern Syria, thousands of civilians fled Afrin as Turkish-backed forces continued to fight Syrian Kurdish forces trapped in the city. Around 15,000 people fled on Friday after more than 30,000 left the city on Thursday, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The monitor said bombing of the city killed 43 civilians, including 16 in a Turkish strike against a hospital. The UN's humanitarian spokeswoman in Syria, Linda Tom, said Turkey's incursion into the region around Afrin has displaced more than 48,000 since it began in mid-January. Turkey wants to defeat US-backed Syrian Kurdish forces that it has said are linked to the Kurdistan Worker's Party (PKK), a Turkish-based group that has fought an insurgency against Ankara. Read more: Turkey's military offensive against Kurdish-held Afrin: What you need to know Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson Eight years of despair More than half a million people have died and 11 million have been driven from their homes since the Syrian war began in 2011. Foreign governments have entered on different sides of the conflict, with Russia's intervention in 2015 credited with gradually turning the tide of the war in favor of Assad. Read more: Opinion: The twisted logic of the war in Syria Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uQ0E amp/sms (AFP, Reuters, dpa) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.