The Bundesliga title holders were paired up with Spanish side Sevilla in the draw for the Champions League quarterfinals, which was held at UEFA headquarters in the Swiss town of Nyon on Friday. The first legs of the quarterfinals are to be held on the third and fourth of April, with the second legs set for the 10th and 11th. Bayern Munich, who advanced to the quarterfinal stage by crushing Turkish side Besiktas 8-1 on aggregate in the round of 16, haven't won Europe's top club competition since Jupp Heynckes was last head coach in 2013, when they won the treble. Sevilla reached the quarterfinals by beating Manchester United 2-1 in the second leg of their round-of-16 tie, after the two sides had played to a scoreless draw in the first leg. "I'm looking forward to the match. Sevilla is not an easy opponent. They knocked out Manchester United," Bayern's sporting director, Hasan Salihamidzic, said moments after the draw was made. "Spanish teams always play good football. Sevilla has a lot of international experience, so you have to be cautious." "There were no shouts of joy in the dressing room," Bayern goalkeeper Sven Ulreich said. "They were all difficult draws in the pot." Still, Bayern go into the tie as the clear favorites against the team that is currently in fifth place in the La Liga standings. Whether they want to admit it or not, they've got to be relieved at having avoided some of the tougher teams in the draw, such as Spanish giants Barcelona and Real Madrid, the Premier League's Manchester City and Juventus of Serie A. The Champions League quarterfinal draw: Barcelona vs. Roma Sevilla vs. Bayern Munich Juventus vs. Real Madrid Liverpool vs. Manchester City RB Leipzig draw Marseille in Europa League In Europe's secondary club competition, the Europa League, Germany's only representative, RB Leipzig were drawn against French side Olympique de Marseille.The Red Bull-backed side advanced to the quarterfinals with a 1-1 draw against Zenit in Saint Petersburg on Thursday, having beaten the Russian side 2-1 in the first leg back in Leipzig. This is RB Leipzig's first season playing in Europe. The Europa League quarterfinal draw: RB Leipzig vs. Olympique de Marseille Arsenal vs. CSKA Moscow Atletico vs. Sporting Lazio vs. Salzburg