Exhibitors from 186 countries and regions have descended on the German capital — but for some, the star of the show lies 80 km (49.7 miles) to the north. Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, the northern German federal state best-known for being Chancellor Angela Merkel's constituency, is this year an official partner of ITB Berlin: the largest travel trade fair in the world. From March 7-11 the rural region of 'Meckpomm,' as it's colloquially referred to, will seek to brand itself as a treasure trove of natural beauty — as travel industry leaders from around the world gather in Berlin to discuss the latest developments in tourism. The ITB provides a forum for pressing issues, said Christian Göke, CEO of the 52nd annual trade fair. Topical themes such as luxury travel, technology and sustainability take center stage — but 'overtourism' and digitalization will have their place as well. It is set to officially open on Tuesday evening with a speech from the German Chancellor. 80 percent of the 10,000 tourism companies set to exhibit at the ITB come from abroad. Last year's trade fair drew in approximately 170,000 visitors, the majority from the tourism industry, and organizers expect similar numbers this year. High turnout from Arabic, Asian and South American exhibitors reflect emerging holiday destinations and a conscious effort to promote tourism in the Global South. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qMnK Too many tourists? Part of the buzz surrounding the ITB comes from a boom in the tourism industry. The number of travelers worldwide is expected to increase by 4.5 percent, according to Michael Frenzel, President of the Federal Association of the German Tourism Industry. Not all regions see this as good news. Popular destinations have been increasingly plagued by 'overtourism' — throngs of tourists who clash with locals and, in many cases, take away some of the magic. Activists in some cities have called for total bans on visitors. "The attractiveness of a destination also depends on its hospitality," said Norbert Fiebig, president of the German Travel Association. "It is important to find a good balance between the economic interests and the potential loss of activities for many guests. Mutual solutions are required." Local governments are considering creative solutions, such as capping visitor numbers, promoting tourist activities away from the main sights, and introducing ticketing systems for tourists entering a city. Speakers from Barcelona, Amsterdam and Dubrovnik are set to share measures to counter overtourism in the coming days. The seaside town of Sassnitz is a popular resort in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, official partner to the ITB Berlin 2018. Sustainable tourism With a third of its surface area composed of nature reserves, and a handful of medieval towns dotted along the Baltic Sea coast, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania has built a reputation in Germany for relaxing tourism. As a partner region of the ITB, it will be marketing itself to visitors under the banner 'the spirit of nature.' With more than 2,000 lakes — and about as many kilometers of coastline — the scarcely-populated region of 1.6 million inhabitants is keen to portray itself as a sustainable and well-managed destination. "We only have 69 inhabitants per square kilometer, there is still space," said the state's Premier, Manuela Schwesig. "We try to avoid the concentration of people in a single spot through our soft tourism strategy." Hanseatic towns like Stralsund represent a maritime tradition of sea faring and trading. The old town center with its red brick churches has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 2002. Standing out in all that red is the white building of the Ozeaneum, the German Baltic Sea museum. Those who enjoy sailing set off from here to reach to the Baltic sea islands of Rügen and Hiddensee. The bathing resort of Ahlbeck is one of three "imperial spas" on the island of Usedom, where German Emperor Wilhelm II was already known to seek relaxation in a beach chair. Past the historic Seebrücke pier Europe's longest sea promenade leads 12 kilometers (7.8 miles) to Heringsdorf, Bansin and even across the border to the sea resort of Świnoujście (Swinemünde) in Poland. Like Usedom, the sea-front of the spa towns on Rügen are lined with hotels and villas in the typical resort architecture. Back in the 19th century Germany's biggest island was already a popular holiday destination for the nobility. The sea resort of Binz still shines with white fronted houses with facades decorated with extravagant stucco and delicately carved wooden terraces. On Usedom, the village of Peenemünde came to prominence during the Second World War, as the place where Nazi Germany tested missiles and rockets, including the V-2. Thousands of slave laborers were killed working on the weapons program, which saw the world's first ever rocket launched in October 1942. The birthplace of modern rocket science is today displayed at the Historical Technical Museum. The Fischland-Darß peninsular is a small strip of land in the Baltic Sea. Some 100 years ago artists founded a colony in the fishing village of Ahrenshoop. Painting outdoors surrounded by an impressive landscape was very en vogue in Europe's then young modern art scene. On their canvases, artists captured nature, light and their emotional responses to it all. The Mecklenburg Lake District is located only an hour's drive south from the Baltic Sea coast. The region is home to Lake Müritz, Germany's biggest inland lake, making it a paradise for water sports fans as well as nature lovers. From the town of Waren you can catch a boat or bus tour of the Müritz National Park. From here canoeists can even paddle all the way to Berlin or Hamburg. Müritz National Park is home to over 700 sorts of fern and flowering plants as well as some 800 types of butterflies and 43 dragonfly species. This nature reserve is famous for its white-tailed sea eagles and ospreys. Thousands of cranes also roost here in the spring and fall. The best way for visitors to discover this unspoiled nature is by canoe. For generations Mecklenburg-Vorpommern has served as Germany's granary. Agriculture dominates this sparsely populated landscape. As a result there are hundreds of old manor farm houses, often resembling castles. In the past they used to belong to Mecklenburg nobility, these days they often serve as very comfortable holiday homes. Mecklenburg-Vorpommern's horse breeding traditions date back to the 12th century. In Bad Doberan, mainland Europe's first racecourse was opened in 1823. There are famous stud farms in Redefin and Ganschow. Horse riding fans will find a choice of horse ranches to spend their holidays with their own or a rented horse. From October until Easter they are even allowed ride on the Baltic Sea beaches. In the 19th century grand dukes of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern had an impressive palatial home built in today's state capital, Schwerin. Since late 1990, the feudal building is once again a seat of government, serving as the seat of the regional state assembly. The picturesque location on an island makes the palace an unmistakable landmark of the "city of seven lakes", as Schwerin is also known. Author: Ille Simon