Republican Congressman Don Young is known in Washington for his skewed analogies and provocative remarks. Once, he apparently threatened to bite a fellow party member "like a wild mink." Since the Parkland school shooting, the debate about stricter gun control laws has heated up in the USA. And once again, Alaskan politician Young has elicited public anger. At a conference in his home state, Young claimed that more Jews would have survived the Holocaust if they had been armed. "How many millions of people were shot because they were unarmed?" he asked his audience. "How many Jews were put in ovens because they were unarmed?" Read more: 8 facts about gun control in the US Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2t7oX Absurd claims Civil rights organizations and Young's political opponents were outraged. " It is mind-bending to suggest that personal firearms in the hands of the small number of Germany's Jews could have stopped the totalitarian onslaught of Nazi Germany when the armies of Poland, France, Belgium and numerous other countries were overwhelmed by the Third Reich," Jonathan Greenblatt of the Anti-Defamation League, a US-based NGO that fights against anti-Semitism, told the Washington Post. Young's spokeswoman, Murphy McCollough, told DW that the statements had been taken out of context. She said that the congressman only wanted to illustrate "the dramatic consequences looming over citizens that are not armed," apparently meaning that the people would then be at the mercy of their governments. Read more: Guns and Wall Street — a match made in heaven? How the NRA misappropriates the Holocaust It is not the first time that the National Rifle Association (NRA) and its members have misappropriated the Holocaust. Referring to a 1938 Reich Law, they claim that the Holocaust could have been prevented if the Nazis had not prohibited Jews from possessing weapons. "This absurd assertion repeatedly crops up in arms control debates," said Professor Robert J. Spitzer, who specializes in weapons legislation. "The NRA wants to prove that armed citizens can prevent tyranny. However, people who say things like that have no idea about history." Read more: Trump open to arming teachers after Florida high school shooting From Arizona to Washington DC, students have walked out of classrooms to protest gun violence after the deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Seventeen students were killed when a former student walked onto the premises and opened fire using an AR-15 rifle. Many of the students held signs reading "Never again" and "End gun violence." Teenagers at some of the schools called for the AR-15 and similar assault rifles to be banned for civilian use, saying they should be reserved for the armed forces. Others called for stricter measures to acquire arms. "Innocent people are dying because of the easy access to firearms in this country," said one student. Over the past decade, the US has witnessed several deadly mass shootings, including in Las Vegas, Orlando and Sandy Hook. Many students view the Parkland shooting as part of inaction by lawmakers to curb access to guns. "They send out their thoughts and their prayers, and we appreciate that, but that's enough," said one student. "We need change." But not all educators were supportive of the students. "Life is all about choices and every choice has a consequence whether it be positive or negative," said Superintendent Curtis Rhodes of Texas' Needville Independent School District. "We will discipline no matter if it is one, 50 or 500 students involved." ls/sms (AP, AFP) An easy way to disparage enemies Historian Peter Hayes feels Americans are more likely than Germans to use the term Holocaust in political debates. "It's the easiest way to disparage your opponents, to scare people and to make a factual debate devolve into verbal abuse," he said The debates held in the aftermath of the Florida shooting show that pressure is growing on the powerful NRA. Many Americans are touched by the way survivors at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland are campaigning for stricter gun laws. Now a large majority of Americans are demanding restrictions on the sale of weapons. Trump's latest U-turn The message has evidently reached the White House:President Trump has performed a 180-turn on gun legislation. A list of measures he is now demanding include a more comprehensive review of potential weapon purchases, and a higher minimum age for firearm purchases. Businesses have also reacted to the demands. US retail giant Walmart has already raised the minimum age for buying weapons and ammunition to 21 years. Dick's Sporting, another leading retailer in the USA, has taken assault rifles out of its product range The NRA claims Trump does not want gun control Several companies, including Delta Air Lines, announced that they will no longer grant discounts to members of the NRA: A move with consequences. "I will kill any tax legislation that benefits Delta unless the company changes its position and fully reinstates its relationship with NRA.  Corporations cannot attack conservatives and expect us not to fight back," tweeted Casey Cagle, deputy governor of Delta's home state of Georgia, where the airline is based. True to the threat, Georgia's state legislature has scrapped tax breaks on aviation fuel to punish Delta. The NRA finds itself under increasing pressure — but is not going down without a fight.