Outgoing US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Tuesday that Washington should do more to respond to Russia's "troubling behavior and actions." In farewell remarks at the State Department, Tillerson said the Russian government "must assess carefully as to how its actions are in the best interests of the Russian people and of the world more broadly. "Continuing on their current trajectory is likely to lead to greater isolation on their part, a situation which is not in anyone's interest," he said. Earlier Tuesday, President Donald Trump announced on Twitter that he would replace Tillerson with CIA Director Mike Pompeo. "Mike Pompeo, Director of the CIA, will become our new Secretary of State," Trump wrote in a tweet, adding: "Thank you to Rex Tillerson for his service!" What happened: Read more: 'Rapid loss' of US diplomats under Trump prompts fears of weakened influence Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uGux What were the reactions? Tillerson gave a brief statement thanking State Department employees and US partners. In order for there to be a seamless transition, he said, he would delegate responsibilities to Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan until he officially steps down on March 31. "What is most important is to ensure an orderly and smooth transition during a time that the country continues to face significant policy and national security challenges," Tillerson said. Tillerson's comments came after Undersecretary of State Steve Goldstein wrote in a tweet that Tillerson "did not speak to the President" on Tuesday morning and was "unaware of the reason" for his firing. Goldstein was fired hours later. US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley wrote on Twitter: "Congratulations to my friend and soon to be Secretary of State Mike Pompeo! Great decision by the President." Read more: Rex Tillerson: Company man and Putin pal Foreign policy experts from Republican and Democratic administrations cast doubt over Pompeo, questioning the timing ahead of talks with North Korea and the choice of a vocal Iran hawk. In Germany, Norbert Röttgen, the chairman of the Bundestag Foreign Relations Committee, told DW that Tillerson's sacking damages the predictability and credibility of the United States. "It does not contribute to what is essentially and basically needed and expected from the US administration, and this is predictability," he said. "And this decision on the foreign minister, without firing, without mentioning a reason, is just a symbol for the lack of predictability of the foreign policy of the United States." Rex Tillerson's troubled year: Tillerson, a 65-year-old former CEO and chairman of energy giant ExxonMobil, was sworn in as secretary of state shortly after Trump's inauguration in mid-January 2017. Rumors circulated in October that Trump and Tillerson had fallen out after Tillerson had reportedly called Trump a "moron." Tillerson never denied making the statement. The president also publically contradicted Tillerson at multiple points during his time in office, including on Iran, climate change, North Korea and moving the US Embassy to Jerusalem. A former Exxon executive, Tillerson had served as secretary of state for a little over a year. Donald Trump ousted Tillerson in order to form a "new team" ahead of talks with North Korea, adding that he and Tillerson "disagreed on things." The relationship between them is said to have deteriorated after Tillerson reportedly called Trump a "moron" in October 2017. A Goldman Sachs veteran, Gary Cohn served as Donald Trump's top economic adviser at the head of the National Economic Council. He helped push through controversial tax reforms in 2017. However, Cohn stepped down in March 2018 after failing to persuade Trump to give up his idea of imposing tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Hope Hicks resigned from her post as the White House Communications Director in late February 2018. A day before resigning, she testified before US lawmakers on Russian interference. She admitted to telling "white lies" for Donald Trump, but not related to Russia. The White House insisted her resignation was not linked to the testimony. The 29-year-old former model was among Trump's closest aides. The White House staff secretary handed in his resignation after his ex-wives accused him of domestic abuse. Despite resigning, Rob Porter denied the allegations as "simply false." Trump initially defended Porter, and the US media questioned if and how Porter passed his background check for the job. Recently, reports surfaced of a romance between Porter and Trump's longtime aide Hope Hicks. He played a key role in getting Donald Trump into the White House, but even chief strategist Stephen Bannon was ousted within a year. Bannon was a champion of economic nationalism and Trump's "America First" strategy. After the fallout of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville mid-Aigust, Bannon agreed to leave the administration. The 53-year-old former hedge fund investor nicknamed the "Mooch" was communications director for just 10 days. The colorful New Yorker filled a dream role that had been vacant for months, but was forced out on the same day that straight-shooting former Marine Corps general John Kelly became chief of staff. Trump was displeased with his infamous expletive-laden rant against other senior staff. Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, resigned in July 2017 after clashing with the White House over Trump's complicated financial holdings. Shaub reportedly called Trump's administration a "laughing stock." Reince Priebus, the former White House chief-of-staff, was forced out just six months into his tenure after a public feud with Anthony Scaramucci, the White House communications director. Priebus was reportedly among those West Wing staffers who opposed the hire of Scaramucci. Sean Spicer, who had a fraught relationship with the president and the press, resigned after telling Trump he vehemently disagreed with the selection of Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director. Michael Dubke, the former White House communications director, was asked to leave in May 2017 over what was perceived as his poor handling of the allegations involving Russian involvement in the US election. US President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey - allegedly over how he handled the Clinton emails investigation. Critics, however, believe the FBI's probe into Trump's campaign ties with Russia was the real reason. Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in February 2017 after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office and misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations. Who is Mike Pompeo? Pompeo, a 54-year-old former Republican congressman from Kansas, is one of the most hawkish figures among Trump's foreign policy officials. He has called for scrapping the Iran nuclear deal and regime change in North Korea, and he has downplayed Russian meddling in the 2016 US presidential election. First woman as CIA boss: Trump also announced that Deputy CIA Director Gina Haspel would replace Pompeo at the head of the CIA. Her appointment would make her the first woman to take over the post. Haspel is a career intelligence operative, who joined the CIA in 1985. She is a controversial figure over her alleged involvement running CIA "black sites" after the September 11, 2001 terror attacks. The New York Times and other US media previously reported that she played a role in the destruction of videos of US torture sessions. What's next? The Senate must approve Pompeo and Haspel before they take up their new positions. Some senior politicians, including Republican Senator John McCain, have said they would challenge Haspel's nomination. "The torture of detainees in US custody during the last decade was one of the darkest chapters in American history," said McCain, who himself was tortured as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam. "Ms. Haspel needs to explain the nature and extent of her involvement in the CIA's interrogation program during the confirmation process." Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, meanwhile, said Haspel's "background makes her unsuitable to serve as CIA director." amp, jbh/rc (Reuters, dpa, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.