Porn star Stormy Daniels has filed a revised federal lawsuit against Michael Cohen, the personal attorney of US President Donald Trump, accusing him of defamation. The White House, meanwhile, has continued to deny any relationship between Trump and Daniels. The 39-year-old adult actress — real name Stephanie Clifford — has dominated US headlines after a blockbuster interview with CBS on Sunday in which she claimed she was physically intimidated by a Trump representative to keep quiet about an alleged sexual encounter between the pair. Read more: Ex-porn star Stormy Daniels sues Trump over hush agreement The story so far: Read more: Trump lawyer 'paid $130,000' to porn actress Latest developments: Read more: Trump bemoans how 'mere' sexual abuse allegations lead to resignations How people reacted White House Spokesman Raj Shah said: "The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims, and the only person who's been inconsistent is the one making the claims." Avenatti, speaking on the defamation claim, said Cohen "meant to convey that Ms. Clifford is a liar, someone who should not be trusted, and that her claims about her relationship with Mr. Trump" were not true. Cohen, speaking on the threat allegation, wrote in a letter that he: "had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred." Trump has remained unusually quiet, only tweeting on Monday that "fake news" has "never been more voluminous or more inaccurate." Read more: Trump rejects congressional sexual harassment probe Why the payment issue is problematic The payment to Daniels could amount to an illegal campaign contribution. Watchdog groups have filed claims with the US Justice Department and the Federal Election Commission, alleging the $130,000 exceeded campaign contribution limits. It may also have violated federal law, as it was not listed in Trump's financial disclosure forms. How the allegations could affect Trump The alleged affair could potentially undermine his wide support among evangelical voters. The months-long drama could also be fueling unrest in the White House. Former President Bill Clinton was impeached by Congress after lying about his relationship with intern Monica Lewinsky in a sexual harassment case that was eventually thrown out. What will happen to Trump The complaints against Trump may lead to more serious allegations that could force his lawyer, Cohen, and potentially Trump himself to testify under oath. If investigators find that the payments were intended to be kept secret, they could lead to charges. Details of the other affair allegation Former Playboy model Karen McDougal told CNN last week she had a 10-month affair with Trump starting in 2006, a year after his marriage to Melania and the year their son was born. McDougal is seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with the publisher of supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. Her suit alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in a $150,000 payment during the 2016 presidential campaign. Sidebar: Next month, Daniels is bringing her "Making America Horny Again" strip show to a venue near Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida. aw/cmk (AFP, Reuters, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.