Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Friday that the Russian military and the Syrian government were extending a cease-fire in the rebel-held area of eastern Ghouta for as long as it took for all civilians to leave. Lavrov made his comments at a meeting of the foreign ministers of Iran, Russia and Turkey in the Kazakh capital, Astana, where several rounds of talks on Syria have been held since January 2017. Speaking at the outset of the talks, Lavrov said that "millions of Syrians" were "looking in the direction of Astana." However, the negotiations held there, most of which have involved delegations from the Syrian government and opposition, have so far failed to bring any lasting peace to the country. All three countries have stakes in Syria's more than seven-year-long conflict, which has its roots in peaceful protests against the Assad regime that were brutally put down by Syrian security forces. The Turkish, Russian and Iranian foreign ministers have met in Astana several times before Mass exodus The Russian Defense Ministry said that 2,000 people had left the suburbs in eastern Ghouta by early morning on Friday, after tens of thousands fled on Thursday. Syria's military, backed by Russian aerial support, stepped up its years-long siege of eastern Ghouta around a month ago, with opposition activists saying the campaign has killed more than 1,200 people, including some 250 children, and precipitated a humanitarian crisis. Forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad are now believed to control more than 70 percent of the area. Despite the cease-fire claimed by Lavrov, Russian airstrikes on Friday morning on the rebel-held village of Kafr Batna killed 31 civilians and wounded many others, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The Observatory is an activist group linked with the Syrian opposition that is monitoring the conflict. Read more: Eastern Ghouta tragedy pits neighbors against each other Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uQ0E Civilians killed in Afrin Elsewhere, Turkish shelling of the Kurdish-majority enclave of Afrin in northern Syria killed at least 18 civilians on Friday, the Observatory said. The Observatory said five of those killed were children, and that there was fighting on the northern edge of the city. It said at least 245 civilians, including 41 children, had been killed so far amid an air and ground offensive by Turkey and Syrian Arab rebel proxies launched on January 20. Turkey has called its Afrin offensive 'Operation Olive Branch' Turkey has said it wants to rid its border region of the US-backed Kurdish militia YPG, which Ankara says is linked with the outlawed Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK). The PKK has been waging a decades-long insurgency in Turkey. Turkish-led forces have now nearly fully encircled the city of Afrin, leaving just one road open for civilians to flee to areas controlled either by the Syrian regime or the YPG. On Thursday, the Observatory said that more than 30,000 civilians had fled Afrin in 24 hours. tj/ng (Reuters, AFP, AP) Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.