German Chancellor Angela Merkel appeared on Friday to welcome France's calls for bold eurozone reforms, saying that greater cohesion was required across the bloc. "On fostering economic and monetary union, we need to bear in mind that we need to stabilize the euro," Merkel said at a press conference alongside French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Friday. "In our joint-European policy, we want to show results. As Europeans we will be unbeatable if we remain united." Read more: How France's Emmanuel Macron wants to reform the EU After holding talks in the Elysee Palace, the leaders announced the two countries would hold a series of meetings on a range of policy areas ahead of the European leaders' summit in June. "This is our task by June: on the eurozone, on migration policy, defense, trade, research, education and large areas that we have been able to set out," Macron said. "We will propose a clear, ambitious roadmap for this refoundation by June." The French president added: "This opens an important chapter over the next three months, and an important chapter for Europe's long-term prospects." Confronting Europe's challenges Merkel and Macron said that a cohesive reform would push the EU to confront the many challenges it faces — from Brexit to the ongoing rise of populism, most recently reflected in this month's elections in Italy. "We do not always have the same opinions at first but France and Germany have accomplished a lot together in the past," the chancellor said. "We now want to find common paths ahead. I am determined to get there and I think we can do it. It is more necessary than ever that Europe be united in a geopolitical situation in which multilateralism is under pressure." Read more: Opinion: Italy's election results highlight a European trend Response to Russia poisoning Both Merkel and Macron also denounced Russia's alleged poisoning of a former agent in the UK and reiterated their support for the British government on the issue. Merkel said that the UK's European allies would ask the international organizations to intervene, while "we adopt the best possible response to this attack." Read more: France, Germany, UK, US blame Moscow for ex-spy chemical attack - 
joint  declaration Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uQp2 Worth the wait Macron opened Friday's press conference by congratulating Merkel on her re-election, adding that France was pleased with the political decision taken by the German public. "I have to tell you that the joy was all ours when it ended well," Macron told his German counterpart. Merkel jokingly apologized for keeping the French president waiting for some six months, but quipped that "sometimes waiting is worth it." Read more: Is Emmanuel Macron Europe's new Angela Merkel? The chancellor said that her new coalition with the Social Democrats (SPD) would mark a new breakthrough for Europe, and that it came about largely as a response to the situation in France. The SPD leadership has been an advocate for Macron's proposed reforms for the eurozone, which include the creation of a common eurozone budget and minister post, and made them a focal point during coalition talks with Merkel's conservatives. By contrast, Merkel's partners in the Christian Democrats have, at best, been lukewarm towards the idea, but now appear to agree that reforms of some kind are necessary to boost the EU's economic strugglers and stem the populist tides in the south and east of the bloc. The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. After the SPD and CDU/CSU agreed on a policy blueprint, it became apparent that Sigmar Gabriel would not keep his position as head of the Foreign Ministry. He will be succeeded by former Justice Minister Heiko Maas. Scholz nomination for finance minister had been rumored for weeks. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD. Scholz will also serve as vice-chancellor. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. Heiko Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, but he's now taken over the reigns at the Foreign Ministry. Trained lawyer Katarina Barley will take on the post. She served as both minister of family affairs and minister of labor in 2017 as part of the previous government. Andrea Nahles will step down as labor minister to lead the SPD following Martin Schulz's decision to resign. Her successor, Hubertus Heil, was the surprise announcement when the SPD unveiled its Cabinet ministers. A member of the Bundestag since 1998, Heil has twice served as the party's secretary general. Barbara Hendricks, Germany's outgoing minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. While she may well have liked to stay on in her job, the SPD leadership announced it was seeking a successor. Svenja Schulze will take over, having previously served as minister for innovation, science and research in North Rhine-Westphalia. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Franziska Giffey's elevation from the mayor of Berlin's Neukölln district to Cabinet minister is perhaps the most eye-catching appointment. Giffey will bypass the Bundestag altogether to ascend into the government, but the SPD leadership believes her experience in charge of what has often been described as Berlin's "troubled" district makes her the most suitable candidate for the role. Gerd Müller, 62, has been tapped to retain his position as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. The CSU has thus chosen three men for its Cabinet posts, while Bär will become the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, is to take the Transport Ministry. He has had experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. Author: Carla Bleiker Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.