The number of patients treated for exposure to an unknown nerve agent in the British town of Salisbury has risen to 21, but officials have not yet confirmed exactly what substance they found. Here are the top five substances political regimes have used in the past — or might use — to eliminate adversaries or traitors. Investigators at work after Russian agents poisoned defector Litvinenko in London Polonium 210 Russian agents used the radioactive element to poison former FSB agent Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006, say British investigators. Former Russian intelligence colleagues reportedly poured the substance into his tea. 23 days elapsed between the day when he was hospitalized and his death. Polonium 210 cannot be bought on the market and is almost impossible to detect if the investigation starts too late. It has a half-life of 138 days. In nature, it only appears in marginal quantities as a product of radioactive decay. The world's nuclear powers are the only countries able to produce polonium in quantities that could be used to kill. In order to produce the lethal dose of 100 nanograms, one would need several hundred kilograms of raw uranium ore. In a nuclear reactor, one could generate polonium by bombarding bismuth with neutrons. Read more: Top ten most dangerous viruses in the world Just how dangerous is mercury, anyway? Handling polonium, however, is not very dangerous. The element is a strong ionizing alpha emitter. When sealed in any packaging, it is actually rather safe. The radioactivity will not even penetrate a sheet of paper. However, if inhaled or ingested it damages the stomach lining, destroys leukocytes in the blood and results in anemia. It also destroys stem cells and prevents them from multiplying. Victims die within a few days or weeks. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2T8oq Ricin Ricin is one of the most dangerous poisons in the world. Just a few milligrams of the naturally-occurring, carbohydrate-binding protein are enough to kill someone when injected, swallowed or inhaled. It can be extracted from the seeds of the castor oil plant Ricinus communis. Once in the body, ricin prevents the production of essential proteins. As a result, the central nervous system, kidneys, liver and other organs will fail. Death by multiple organ failure or cardiovascular shock will occur within a few days. Markov was publishing unpleasant details about communist leaders when he was poisoned with ricin Ricin became famous in the Georgi Markov umbrella murder case. A Bulgarian communist agent fired a tiny bullet with the substance into the defector's leg in 1978 in London; Markov died three days later. Investigators at the time suggested that the Soviet agency KGB may have provided the poison. It has been alleged that Bulgarian dictator Todor Zhivkov ordered the assassination of the writer, because Markov published biting details about the top circles of the communist regime. His sarcastic broadcasts on western media, including the BBC, RFE and DW, were popular with listeners in Bulgaria. VX More recently, on February 13, 2017, two women sprayed the nerve agent VX into the face of Kim Jong Nam, killing the half-brother of North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong Un. The assassination took place at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Kim Jong Nam died on the way from the airport clinic to another hospital shortly after the attack. Kim Jong Nam The two women were from Vietnam and Indonesia and claim that they did not know that the spray included the nerve agent and that they were made to believe that they were part of a candid-camera prank. Investigators believe that Kim Jong Un ordered the assassination. VX is the most dangerous known chemical nerve agent. Just 0.4 milligrams of the substance is enough to kill an adult. Chemist Ranajit Gosh discovered the substance in the 1950s when researching on pesticides in the laboratories of the British Imperial Chemical Industries. A related substance called VG was used as a pesticide under the name Amiton — but only for a short period. During the Cold War, the United States started mass producing VX. The Soviet Union produced a related nerve agent known as "Russian VX." The nerve agent has been banned under the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention. North Korea is not a signatory. Other historic incidents in which VX was used include the 1988 mass killing of roughly 5,000 Kurdish civilians by the forces of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein in the town of Halabja. And in the early 1990s Japanese sect leader Shako Asahara synthesized VX and killed one victim with the substance. He later committed the 1995 subway terror attack with another nerve agent, Sarin, killing 13 people and injuring more than 1,000. Botox The poison, produced by Clostridium Botulinum, is mainly known for its cosmetic application. However, the botulism toxin is the same one responsible for food poisoning. The bacteria is ubiquitous, but can only develop and multiply in an environment without oxygen. That's why it occurs in spoiled salami. Botox is similar to the toxin at work in a tetanus infection. It is a neurotoxic protein, which blocks the transmission of signals by the nerve cells. This results in a paralysis of the vegetative nerve system and muscle weakness. Just 0.3 micrograms of Botox can be fatal. Botox is considered a potential biological weapon. The main concern is that it could be used in bioterrorism. Iraq under Saddam Hussein had a program for producing Botox as a weapon of war. According to Cuban secret service head Fabian Escalante's Book "Executive Action", the CIA or Cuban exiles had at one point hatched a plan to kill Fidel Castro with a Botox-contaminated cigar. The existence of the alleged plan cannot be independently confirmed. Poison dart frogs only produce the toxin when living in their natural habitat BTX Batrachotixin is another extremely powerful neurotoxin. It is a steroidal alkaloid produced by poison dart frogs, an endangered species native to Latin America. Just 0.2 grams are enough to kill a human. The toxin causes arrhythmias and ventricular fibrillation in heart muscles, resulting in a cardiovascular arrest. It is not possible to keep poison dart frogs in captivity and then produce the toxin, however. Only in their native habitat in the Central and South American rainforests are the animals able to produce the toxin. It is believed that the frogs can only develop the poison as a result of digesting certain beetles and insects. Thousands of the frogs would be needed to produce enough BTX to kill a human. However, there are no known cases of human poisoning by BTX. Sergei Skripal, a 66-year-old former Russian spy, was found unconscious on a bench outside a shopping center in the British city of Salisbury after he was exposed to what police said was an unknown substance. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the situation "tragic" but said, "We don't have information about what could be the cause, what this person did." The estranged half-brother of Kim Jong Un was killed on February 13, 2018 at Kuala Lumpur airport after two women allegedly smeared the chemical nerve agent VX on his face. In February, a Malaysian court heard that Kim Jong Nam had been carrying a dozen vials of antidote for the deadly nerve agent VX in his backpack at the time of the poisoning. Former Russian spy Litvinenko had worked for the Federal Security Service (FSB) before he defected to Britain, where he became a journalist and wrote two books of accusations against the FSB and Putin. He became ill after meeting with two former KGB officers and died on November 23, 2006. A government inquiry found he was killed by radioactive polonium-210 which it alleged the men put in his tea. In November 2010, doctors at Berlin's Charité hospital discovered high levels of mercury had been found in a Russian dissident couple working in Berlin. Kalashnikov, a freelance journalist and former KGB colonel, had 3.7 micrograms of mercury per litre of blood, while his wife had 56 micrograms. A safe level is 1-3 micrograms. Viktor reportedly told German magazine Focus that "Moscow poisoned us." Ukrainian opposition leader Yushchenko became sick in September 2004 and was diagnosed with acute pancreatis caused by a viral infection and chemical substances. The illness resulted in facial disfigurement, with pockmarks, bloating and jaundice. Doctors said the changes to his face were from chloracne, which is a result of dioxin poisoning. Yushchenko claimed government agents poisoned him. On September 25, 1997, Israel's intelligence agency attempted to assassinate Hamas leader Meshaal, under orders from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Two agents sprayed a poisonous substance into Meshaal's ear as he walked into the Hamas offices in Amman, Jordan. The assassination attempt was unsuccessful and not long afterward the two Israeli agents were captured. In 1978, Bulgarian dissident Markov was waiting at a bus stop after a shift at the BBC when he felt a sharp jab in his thigh. He turned to see a man picking up an umbrella. A small bump appeared where he felt the jab and four days later he died. An autopsy found he'd been killed by a small pellet containing a 0.2-milligram dose of ricin. Many believe the poisoned dart was fired from the umbrella. On December 30, 1916, mystic and spiritual healer Rasputin arrived at Yusupov Palace in St Petersburg at the invitation Prince Felix Yusupov. There, Prince Yusupov offered Rasputin cakes laced with potassium cyanide but he just kept eating them. Yusupov then gave him wine in a cyanide-laced wine glasses, but still Rasputin continued to drink. With the poison failing, Rasputin was shot and killed. Author: Louisa Wright