Margit Wolf worked in Leipzig for decades, raised her family and retired at the age of 65. Most German women with this biography would be entitled to a generous pension enabling them to live out their golden years in relative comfort. But Wolf, along with 30,000 other women from the former East Germany (GDR)are forced to subsist on the edge of the poverty line, at an average of €400 ($494) a month. These women have been fighting for their rights for nearly thirty years, all because they happened to get divorced before the fall of the Berlin Wall. Attempts to plead their case before the United Nations and the European Union have been unsuccessful, and now the Organization for the Divorced Women of the GDR (Verein der in der DDR Geschiedene Frauen) is hoping that the new government of Chancellor Angela Merkel (herself a divorced woman from the former GDR) will finally come to their aid. "After reunification, divorced men had their pensions grandfathered in, but the ones for divorced women were just canceled. Several women tried to sue the government as individuals but were rejected," Wolf told DW. Read also: Women still face legalized discrimination in 155 countries "Men in the GDR simply did not stay at home," her ex-husband included, Wolf said €2.07 per month After completing her studies, Wolf worked throughout the 1970s, 80s and early 90s in the export business, excluding the years she had to take care of her daughter because of a lack of state daycare centers and the girl's illness. Under the GDR, Wolf was promised that these years would be included in her pension. Now she receives €2.07 ($2.56) a month for that time. After reunification, Wolf's firm went out of business and she was forced to take on a string of positions below her education level until her retirement due to perceived deficiencies in East German instruction, further diminishing her pension. "I get about €1,000 to live in an apartment where warm water alone costs €400," she said. "I imagined my retired life somewhat differently…the government only tells us 'you won't starve', because we can apply for old-age welfare benefits." Read also: Gender pay gap report reveals equal pay now 217 years away Divorcees 'punished' by Reunification Treaty Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2txcu Germany's 1990 Reunification Treaty seemingly covered everything in the social system, including divorced men. Yet it intentionally cut divorced women out of their pensions, calculating their pay on a scale of only "self-generated" net income that omits income earned while married and doesn't take into account time spent not working or working only part-time after the birth of children. "For reasons that are difficult to understand, the men who wrote the treaty like [Former Finance Minister Wolfgang] Schäuble, decided to punish a particular group this way. It goes so far as to mention them by name, and note that they were offered no solution," said longtime human rights activist Marion Böker, who represented the women at the failed attempt to receive justice from the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). Requests to every single session of federal and state parliaments since reunification have yet to yield any justice for these women. "New measures are continually recommended by the relevant committee for adoption and then rejected by the government," Böker told DW. Read also: Germany to close pay gap with transparent wage structures Despite their decades of work in factories, schools, hospitals and businesses, divorced women from the former GDR are left with little to survive on at the end of the month Justice, thirty years late Although requests for their rights to be enshrined in the federal government's new "grand coalition" agreement fell on deaf ears, both Wolf and Böker see a flickering light at the end of a very long tunnel. Lawmakers from the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), Green and Left parties have all demonstrated their sympathy to the cause. Böker spoke with SPD leader Andrea Nahles just last week, and when the Conference of State Ministers for Women and Equality meets in Bremen in June they have promised to make the GDR divorcees one of the main topics of discussion. Additionally, the state legislatures of Brandenburg and Thuringia have promised to find a solution for the women as soon as possible. But as Margit Wolf pointed out, this may be much too little, much too late. Many of the women who suffered from this systemic discrimination have already died, or are so old the changes will make little difference. Author Louise Otto-Peters (1819-1895) is a pioneer of Germany's women's movements. At the age of 24, she called for more female participation in decision-making and co-founded with other suffragists the General German Women's Association (Allgemeiner Deutscher Frauenverein) in 1865. The activist also wrote poetry and novels, earning her the "songbird" nickname. Girls didn't have easy access to education in Germany at the end of the 19th century. The women's movement of the late 1890s aimed to emancipate girls and women through schooling. Teacher and feminist Helene Lange (1948-1930) was a leading figure in this movement; she also founded different women's suffrage groups. Activist Clara Zetkin (1857-1933) fought for stronger representation of women in trade unions, women's suffrage and abortion rights — already aiming to abolish the controversial Paragraph 218 of German criminal law, which remained an activists' issue well into the 1970s. And finally, she also contributed to establishing International Women's Day. Anita Augspurg (left) and her associates didn't care much about social conventions. Augspurg lived together with her girlfriend, and they both wore men's cloths and short hair. As a lawyer, she fought for women's suffrage (granted in Germany in 1918) and the rights of prostitutes. Augspurg's association participated in forming international women's networks. The Nazis rejected emancipatory movements. Women were expected to stick to their traditional role as wives and mothers; the Nazi party promoted an image of women that had previously been dispelled by activists. In the eyes of the Nazis, women's rights groups had been created by Jews or Communists and needed to be suppressed. For several years under Hitler, German women's fundamental role was to bear as many children as possible and raise them with Nazi values, in order to help maintain the "Aryan race." Women who were particularly successful in this regard were honored with the Cross of Honor of the German Mother ("Mutterkreuz"). However, this changed once the war started, as women were needed in the workforce. With the end of World War II in 1945, German women came to play an important role in the reconstruction of the war-torn country. They not only helped remove debris, but also made their voices heard in politics. New women's associations picked up the work that had been stalled in 1933, aiming to achieve equal rights for women. In 1961, birth control pills became available in Germany. At first, they were only prescribed to married women — officially against menstruation pains. But the pill quickly became widespread, and strongly contributed to the sexual emancipation of women in the late 1960s. The 1968 West German student movement fought not only to reform universities, but also against authoritarian structures and for sexual emancipation. However, the leadership of the movement was male-dominated; feminist activists went their own way. The banner on the right reads "Emancipation = Class conflict" — the influence of Marxist theory nevertheless remained strong for them too. In Germany, abortion was a criminal offence until the 1970s. Following the sexual revolution of the late 60s, activists demanded the abolition of Paragraph 218 that outlaws abortion. In 1971, the magazine Stern published the names of 374 women admitting they had an abortion. The law was reformed in 1976, and several times since, legalizing abortions under certain terms. A pioneer of Germany's feminist movement, Alice Schwarzer founded in 1977 the country's first feminist magazine, EMMA, which avoided all glamour and tackled political issues. Schwarzer remains a controversial figure in the country, but she has also driven important debates that led to necessary changes for women. In the mid 1970s, the West German women's movement also took on a new symbol — purple overalls, usually worn by workmen. Today, it is hard to believe how many restrictions were still imposed on women at the time, especially married ones. It was only in 1977 that wives in West Germany were entitled to gainful employment without the authorization of their husband. When German punk lady Nina Hagen released her debut album in 1978, she triggered both criticism and enthusiasm. A woman at the top of a rock band? Socially critical texts using plain vulgar language? A woman masturbating in front of a camera during a TV show? No other woman came to symbolize female freedom and liberty to that extent. Nina Hagen became a cult figure. Women's voices grew stronger as they started founding associations for lesbians, women lawyers and peace activists. With the ecologist Green Party, feminism made it into Germany's parliament. Even the conservative Christian Democrats followed suit by appointing a woman as a minister. It took until 1997, however, to outlaw marital rape. Although women's movements have achieved some of their goals, a lot still remains to be done. Men still dominate Germany's parliament and big companies. Men still earn more money for the same job as women. And they still misuse their positions of power by sexually harassing or abusing women. Chances are that the #metoo movement founded in October 2017 will remain busy for some time to come. Author: Silke Wünsch (ad)