The Vatican on Wednesday announced that Paul VI and murdered Salvadoran Archbishop Oscar Romero (pictured) were to be made saints. Pope Francis signed decrees on Tuesday that approved the canonizations based on miracles the candidates are believed to have performed. Read more: Opinion: Pope Francis wants change. But does the Church? Reformer Paul VI, who ruled from 1963 to 1978, is mostly remembered for overseeing the Second Vatican Council reforms of the Catholic Church in the 1960s, which included the end of Latin Mass for ordinary services. During his papacy, he also confirmed a long-standing ban on abortion and the use of artificial contraceptives. Pope Paul VI seen here in 1968 ruled from 1963 to 1978 Read more: Mother Teresa declared a saint by Pope Francis Assassinated Archbishop Oscar Romero was assassinated by right-wing death squads on March 24, 1980, as he celebrated Mass in a hospital chapel. He had been a public critic of human rights violations committed in El Salvador by the army and leftist rebels at the start of the country's 1980-1992 civil war. El Salvador's military dictatorship strongly opposed his preaching against the army's reported repression of the poor. Read more: Opinion: Benedict XVI advanced Vatican by resigning as pope Overcoming opposition Francis unblocked Romero's long-stalled sainthood case at the beginning of his pontificate and declared him a martyr in 2015. The Vatican had held up Romero's case mainly due to opposition from conservative Latin American churchmen who worried about Romero's perceived association with the liberation theology movement. The churchmen feared Romero's elevation to saint would strengthen the movement, which believes Jesus' teachings require followers to fight for social and economic justice. His sainthood was also delayed due to a debate on whether Romero's killer targeted him because of his faith or his politics. Some argued that a political motivation should preclude the Church from naming Romero a martyr of the faith. Dates for the ceremonies are still to be decided. Here's a patron saint for "impossible cases", including abused wives, parents, lonely hearts and widows: Rita of Cascia. a 15th century Italian - who later joined an Augustinian convent - pledged to forgive her abusive husband's killers and convinced her sons to do so, too. She was called the "peacemaker of Cascia." By the end of the first century A.D., Christians had begun to honor other Christians who had died - praying for their help. Described in the gospels of Luke and John - and a witness to Jesus' resurrection of her brother Lazarus - Martha is the patron saint of housewives and domestic workers. Why? She is said to have shown Jesus hospitality at her home in Bethany near Jerusalem. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan in the fourth century, is the patron saint of beekeepers. Legend has it that when he was a baby, a swarm of bees settled on his face and fed him honey while he lay in his cradle – regarded as a sign that he would one day be a great orator. He is often depicted with symbols of wisdom: bees or a beehive. A martyr killed in the third century, Christopher's most famous legend has it that he carried a child across a river - and the child later revealed himself as Christ. He is the patron saint of travelers: cab, bus and truck drivers often enough evoke his protection with visor clips, decals and small adhesive figurines. Astronauts and pilots have their own patron saint as well: a 17th century Italian Franciscan priest prone to ecstatic visions and - legend has it - levitations. Flying was widely believed to be based on witchcraft, so the Inquisition took an interest in Joseph, who was later exonerated. Sir Thomas More was a 16th century English philosopher and statesman. He was also counselor to King Henry VIII, but opposed the King's separation from the Roman Catholic Church and was thus convicted of treason and beheaded. In the year 2000, Pope John Paul declared him the "heavenly patron of statesmen and politicians." Born in the 2nd or 3rd century, Cecilia is thought to have been the daughter of a wealthy Roman family forced to marry the pagan Valerian. The martyr - condemned to suffocate, almost decapitated - is regarded as the patroness of music and singers because she heard heavenly music in her heart when she was married. The Italian, born in the late 12th century to a life of luxury, instead embraced a life of poverty. He, who legend has it had a great love and a knack for communicating with animals, is the founder of the Franciscan order and the patron saint of ecologists, animals and veterinarians. Along with Gambrinus, Florian, Bonifacius, Arnulf and Nicholas of Myra, Augustine of Hippo is only one of many patron saints of beer brewers. Augustine lived in the 4th century, and after initially living a wild and loose life, became a bishop. To this very day, many breweries and beers - people's standard drink centuries ago - are named after a saint. The patron saint of firefighters and chimney sweeps was a Roman officer in 3rd century Austria, responsible for organizing firefighting brigades. Legend has it he was to be burned at the stake for refusing to pray to the Roman Gods but was drowned instead, a millstone around his neck, after threatening to climb to heaven on the flames. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach law/amp (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)