Heiko Maas told foreign ministry staff during Wednesday's handover speech that Germany would not "duck out of the way" of its international responsibilities and the challenges taking place on its door step. There is a division in the world "between those who advocate for openness and tolerance, and those seeking a return to nationalism," Maas said. This division, he said, would define German foreign policy over the coming years. Read more: Heiko Maas: Who is Germany's new foreign minister? On the back of Maas' approach to his new role as top diplomat, his first two official trips to neighboring countries will carry a great degree of symbolic value. Immediately following his inauguration, the new foreign minister traveled to Paris to meet his new counterpart. Next week, he will travel the Polish capital of Warsaw for talks with officials from the nationalist conservative Law and Justice Party. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2szxw Standing up to Russia Maas also vowed that Germany would adopt a more hardline stance in dealings with Russia. The Ukraine crisis remains the biggest test of EU determination and cohesion, Maas said, adding that Russia's annexation of Ukraine's territory of Crimea and its ongoing aggression in the Donetsk and Luhansk would not be tolerated. The 51-year-old also said that he wanted to arrange a meeting of foreign ministers under the so-called Normandy format — a diplomatic group aimed at resolving the Ukraine crisis made up of officials from Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine. The last such meeting took place more than a year ago. Read more: How does Germany contribute to NATO? "Russia is and will remain our neighbor," Maas said. "We need to have constructive channels of dialogue at as many levels as possible." "But when Russia defines itself as increasingly distant, and even in opposition to us the West, we may regret it but it changes the reality of our foreign policy," the new foreign secretary added. Germany's new foreign minister also said he "can completely understand" Britain's decision to expel 23 Russian diplomats and bilateral contacts in response to the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Salisbury. Maas said it was "disappointing that Russia so far doesn't appear to be prepared" to help in the case. Improved Israel relations Maas announced that he would travel to Israel to mark the country's 70th anniversary of its founding. "Personally, the German-Israeli history isn't just one of historical responsibility, but it also represents a deep motivation in my political decision-making," he said. Read more: Netanyahu accuses German Foreign Minister Gabriel of 'tactlessness' "I didn't go into politics out of respect for (former SPD Chancellor) Willy Brandt or the peace movement," Maas added. "I went into politics because of Auschwitz." Last year, Chancellor Angela Merkel cancelled an annual round table summit between Germany and Israel, citing the need to plan ahead for the federal elections. However, there were reports she chose to cancel out of anger over Israel's decision to continue expanding its settlements into the Palestinian territories. Relations between the two states have been difficult ever since. Sigmar Gabriel prepares to hand over the reigns of the Foreign Ministry to Heiko Maas Sigmar Gabriel's parting message Maas' predecessor, Sigmar Gabriel, stepped aside as foreign minister on Wednesday with an appeal to his former colleagues: Europe can no longer simply quote its own values; it needs to clearly define and enforce them. While for a long time the United States could be regarded as the West's most reliable partner, but that was no longer the case, Gabriel said. The outgoing top diplomat and vice chancellor described his 14 months at the Foreign Ministry as humbling, given the multiple limits confronted in foreign policy. The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. After the SPD and CDU/CSU agreed on a policy blueprint, it became apparent that Sigmar Gabriel would not keep his position as head of the Foreign Ministry. He will be succeeded by former Justice Minister Heiko Maas. Scholz nomination for finance minister had been rumored for weeks. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD. Scholz will also serve as vice-chancellor. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. Heiko Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, but he's now taken over the reigns at the Foreign Ministry. Trained lawyer Katarina Barley will take on the post. She served as both minister of family affairs and minister of labor in 2017 as part of the previous government. Andrea Nahles will step down as labor minister to lead the SPD following Martin Schulz's decision to resign. Her successor, Hubertus Heil, was the surprise announcement when the SPD unveiled its Cabinet ministers. A member of the Bundestag since 1998, Heil has twice served as the party's secretary general. Barbara Hendricks, Germany's outgoing minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. While she may well have liked to stay on in her job, the SPD leadership announced it was seeking a successor. Svenja Schulze will take over, having previously served as minister for innovation, science and research in North Rhine-Westphalia. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Franziska Giffey's elevation from the mayor of Berlin's Neukölln district to Cabinet minister is perhaps the most eye-catching appointment. Giffey will bypass the Bundestag altogether to ascend into the government, but the SPD leadership believes her experience in charge of what has often been described as Berlin's "troubled" district makes her the most suitable candidate for the role. Gerd Müller, 62, has been tapped to retain his position as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. The CSU has thus chosen three men for its Cabinet posts, while Bär will become the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, is to take the Transport Ministry. He has had experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. Author: Carla Bleiker Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/jm (dpa, AFP, Reuters)