"Child murderers!" a group of right-wing protesters shout at Armin, an artist from the small German town of Kandel. Armin had left a sign for the thousands of demonstrators who descended on his town on Saturday: "Piss off." "They are exploiting a local tragedy for their own ends," one of his neighbors says. "We just want to live peacefully together." The tragedy she's referring to is the death of 15-year-old Mia V., who was stabbed to death in front of a local drugstore by her ex-boyfriend, an Afghan refugee, on December 27. After her death, it emerged that she and her parents had gone to the police multiple times to report the man's aggressive behavior. Since then, the case has taken on a life of its own – striking a nerve around the country as Germans become increasingly polarized in their attitudes toward migration. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2q7eZ Competing demonstrations The case is how this wealthy town of only 8,000 inhabitants found itself at the center of four competing demonstrations on Saturday. Thousands of protestors representing dozens of groups filled the tight medieval streets, from groups as diverse as the far-left "Antifa" (anti-fascist) and the youth wing of the Green party, to the neo-Nazi NPD and the far-right Reichsbürger movement. "We are protecting ourselves and our children from migrants," a member of the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) party who came all the way from Heidelberg said. "The politicians have failed us. I don't feel safe letting my 16-year-old daughter go out on her own at night." "You turned our children into sheep then invited in the wolves," charged these demonstrators She is one of the many women who've come to protest, far more than one usually sees an at AfD convention or a far-right rally. Around her is a dense crowd carrying German flags and banners reading "you turned our children into sheep then invited in the wolves." After a speech from AfD state lawmaker Christina Baum, they begin to chant "Resist! Resist!" It was the AfD, together with a "women's rights" group called "Kandel ist überall," (Kandel is everywhere) that called the original demonstration, calling on supporters from all over Germany to join in the march – and come they did, from Bavaria, from Dresden, from Berlin. Read also: Dueling protests after teen allegedly murdered by refugee 'We don't want to have anything to do with it' "They're all strangers," a member of the town's "Wir Sind Kandel" group tells me. "We don't want to have anything to do with it. What a scandal, making that girl's parents see her death used in this way." An "anti-fascist action" flag carried by left-wing demonstrators But the town of Kandel has been hijacked by both sides, which are kept apart by a heavy police presence. Playing folk music and carrying rainbow banners, a group of counter-demonstrators has arrived to "show those racists some resistance. Germany has to be more careful than most about creeping fascism." Far-left Antifa demonstrators, faces covered, brought up the rear, chanting "Nazis out! Together against racism!" Read also: Violence against refugees in Germany drops dramatically Kandel has become a microcosm of Germany's internal divisions. But although the demonstrations were ostensibly called in her name, Mia V. is hardly mentioned, and her parents have likely already moved away. That the townspeople want to be left in peace, that they've been threatened, that the mayor has received death threats – this doesn't seem to even register to the protesters, who have found a convenient place to set up their soap boxes. Co-chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and said of an image showing a drowned refugee child: "We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes." Alice Weidel generally plays the role of "voice of reason" for the far-right populists, but she, too, is hardly immune to verbal miscues. Welt newspaper, for instance, published a 2013 allegedly from Weidel in which she called German politicians "pigs" and "puppets of the victorious powers in World War II. Weidel initially claimed the mail was fake, but now admits its authenticity. German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the former co-chair of the AfD told a regional newspaper in 2016. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings." Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border. The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel Höcke for his remarks. Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Alternative for Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia state chairman Marcus Pretzell, who is also Frauke Petry's new husband, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony made waves in early 2016 with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. Thousands of unaccompanied minors have sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) - the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" - the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. During a campaign speech in Eichsfeld in August 2017, AfD election co-candidate Alexander Gauland said that Social Democrat parliamentarian Aydan Özoguz should be "disposed of" back to Anatolia. The German term, "entsorgen," raised obvious parallels to the imprisonment and killings of Jews and prisoners of war under the Nazis. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach 