A gunman opened fire at Great Mills High School in St. Mary's County, Maryland, on Tuesday morning, located 65 miles (104 km) southeast of Washington, DC. The shooter later died after exchanging gunfire with the school's on-site security officer, while two other students were critically wounded. Read more: 8 facts about gun control in the US What we know so far Read more: Gun control: Florida lawmakers approve landmark bill From Arizona to Washington DC, students have walked out of classrooms to protest gun violence after the deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Seventeen students were killed when a former student walked onto the premises and opened fire using an AR-15 rifle. Many of the students held signs reading "Never again" and "End gun violence." Teenagers at some of the schools called for the AR-15 and similar assault rifles to be banned for civilian use, saying they should be reserved for the armed forces. Others called for stricter measures to acquire arms. "Innocent people are dying because of the easy access to firearms in this country," said one student. Over the past decade, the US has witnessed several deadly mass shootings, including in Las Vegas, Orlando and Sandy Hook. Many students view the Parkland shooting as part of inaction by lawmakers to curb access to guns. "They send out their thoughts and their prayers, and we appreciate that, but that's enough," said one student. "We need change." But not all educators were supportive of the students. "Life is all about choices and every choice has a consequence whether it be positive or negative," said Superintendent Curtis Rhodes of Texas' Needville Independent School District. "We will discipline no matter if it is one, 50 or 500 students involved." ls/sms (AP, AFP) School officer 'stopped attack' St. Mary's County Sheriff Timothy Cameron told reporters that the actions of the school's campus security officer "stopped any further assault or attack on any other student." Emma Gonzalez, one of the students who survived last month's mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland Florida wrote on Twitter: "We are here for you, students of Great Mills, together we can stop this from ever happening again." Maryland Governor Larry Hogan said in a statement that although his prayers are with the victims, "prayers are not enough." He added that the shooting should not halt the conversation on school safety, but rather "serve as a call to action." School shootings in US: The shooting at Great Mills High School is the latest in a growing list of deadly school shootings in the US. On February 14, a 19-year-old former student used an AR-15 assault-style rifle to kill 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida. Read more: US: Rifle-toting worshippers renew wedding vows at Pennsylvania church Gun control debate: Ongoing gun violence has sparked a fierce, ongoing debate in the US about gun control. US President Donald Trump and the National Rifle Association (NRA) proposed arming teachers to combat shooters in schools. Gun control advocates, however, have urged for a ban on semiautomatic rifles, stricter background checks and other measures to limit ease of access to weapons. 'March for Our Lives' protest: In the aftermath of the shooting in Parkland, teen survivors launched a grassroots campaign for gun control. Their event, dubbed "March for Our Lives," will take place in several cities across the US and is expected to turn out large crowds. rs/kl (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uT5P