Bayern Munich coach Jupp Heynckes is expecting a testing atmosphere when they defend their 5-0 first leg lead at Besiktas on Wednesday. The Bundesliga leaders outclassed their Turkish opponents two weeks ago but Heynckes says he expects a different and more difficult game this time around. Read more: Müller and Lewandowski inspire Bayern rout of Besiktas "We are facing top opponents. We are up against hot-blooded fans who will whip their team forward," Heynckes told reporters. "Even if you have a comfortable lead you still have to go into the game with full concentration. You have to go out to win each game irrespective of the first leg." Besiktas fans already made headlines earlier in the competition when RB Leipzig striker Timo Werner had to be taken off due to dizziness created by the intense noise in the stadium during their group stage encounter. "It is extremely important to play in a good atmosphere. Fans are part of that. Without them and without loud support football is without emotions," Heynckes said. With Arjen Robben sidelined with a minor injury, James Rodriguez could return to the starting line-up Robben out, Rodriguez in contention The Bavarians will be without Arjen Robben, who stayed in Munich with a minor injury, but have no plans to sit back and let Besiktas control the game. James Rodriguez could feature having sat out the three Bundesliga games since going off injured in the first leg, and Heynckes confirmed that Thiago Alcantara could also return to the starting line-up. For Besiktas, the game offers them the chance to restore some pride in front of their home crowd. But they will be hampered by absences in defence, with Domagoj Vida suspended and Pepe and Dusko Tosic injured. Müller ‘pretending score is goalless' Bayern forward Thomas Müller, who scored twice in the lopsided first leg, said the team's mindset to avoid complacency it to pretend the score is still 0-0. "We are preparing for the game as if it were a matter of progressing to the next round and we start at 0-0. We want to show from the beginning that there is no hope and that no miracle can be believed," he told the pre-match news conference.