Syrian regime forces have recaptured a large pocket of territory in the southeast of the rebel enclave of eastern Ghouta, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said late on Saturday. The Britain-based monitor said government forces now control 10 percent of the area, after ground forces — including the army's elite Tiger Force — attacked the eastern edge of the district, despite a United Nations cease-fire resolution last weekend and a Russian-backed series of daily humanitarian pauses. Read more: Turkey airstrikes in Afrin kill dozens of Syrian loyalists The Observatory said the town of al-Shayfouniya is now almost under complete regime rule. Six civilians were killed in government bombings on two other nearby towns, according to the Syrian Civil Defense. Widespread destruction reported The Jaish al-Islam rebel group admitted its fighters had withdrawn from positions in two areas due to intense bombardment. In a statement, it accused Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russia of waging a "scorched earth" campaign. Regime forces have advanced steadily since Thursday, the monitor said, recapturing four areas in the east and southeast of the enclave as well as two air bases. Eastern Ghouta, which has been surrounded by Assad's forces since May 2013, is the last area near the capital, Damascus, held by rebels seeking to oust him. Read more: Which rebel groups are fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta? The area has come under several weeks of intense aerial and artillery bombardment, which has killed more than 640 people — including over 150 children — since February 18. The enclave's estimated 400,000 residents remain trapped, amid shortages of vital supplies, including food and medicine. Matter of time Several analysts think the enclave will eventually fall to the much more heavily armed government side, which has recaptured many other areas of the war-ravaged country using the same military tactics. A 30-day nationwide cease-fire, demanded last week by the UN Security Council, has failed to take effect. Russia, which backs the Syrian regime in the nearly seven-year conflict, has instead implemented daily, five hour "humanitarian" pauses in the area, but claims that Syrian rebel groups have been firing at a corridor set up for evacuation, preventing civilians from leaving. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tZ2t UN trucks loaded with desperately needed aid remain unable to enter the area due to the continued fighting. Read more: UN calls on Russia to implement full 30-day ceasefire in Eastern Ghouta Renewed cease-fire call French President Emmanuel Macron and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expressed "grave concern" about the humanitarian situation in the area in a telephone conversation late on Saturday, according to a statement from the Elysee Palace. The pair said UN convoys should be delivering aid to hard-hit populations in the region. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said in an emergency meeting on Friday that recent events in eastern Ghouta likely included "war crimes and potentially crimes against humanity". He warned that the perpetrators of such crimes should know they were being identified and that dossiers were being built for future prosecutions. More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel mm/jlw (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)