An economic cooperation agreement between the European Union (EU) and the Philippines came into force on Thursday. The landmark Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) covers €260 million ($320.4 million) in aid aimed at "closing pockets of poverty" by investing in renewable energy to provide electricity to remote Philippine provinces and fund developmental projects in the southern island of Mindanao. Additional funding may be secured through multi-donor agreements with the Asian Development Bank. "We are looking at job creation, schools, social services and support to the peace process [in the Philippines]. We [also] want to support displaced people so that they can return to normal life," Stefano Manservisi, the director general for international cooperation at the European Commission, told a press conference in Manila on Friday. 'We remain concerned about the [alleged extrajudicial] killings, but there will be proper mechanisms in place for these concerns to be addressed,' said Manservisi The EU is the largest contributor to a multi-donor development aid program targeting Mindanao, an underdeveloped region plagued by terrorism. "There are no unilateral conditions linked to our development assistance [to the Philippines]," said Manservisi. But will deteriorating human rights situation in the Southeast Asian country have a negative impact on foreign aid? "We remain concerned about the [alleged extrajudicial] killings, but there will be proper mechanisms in place for these concerns to be addressed," Manservisi added. Strained relations The EU is a major source of foreign investment in the Philippines. It is also the second-biggest market for the country's exports. Last year, more than $901 million (€732 million) worth of products were exported from the Philippines to EU member countries. But the long-standing EU-Philippines relations were put to test when Rodrigo Duterte became the country's president in June 2016 and subsequently launched a massive and brutal crackdown on illegal drugs. Images of bullet-ridden corpses of alleged drug users and petty criminals started showing up on media, sparking international outrage and condemnation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fBTM Duterte slammed the international criticism as "foreign meddling" and took on a more aggressive stance. He said his government would turn down foreign aid and grants from any organization that set conditions to undermine the country's "independence." Read more: No drug-related extrajudicial killings in the Philippines? In January last year, the EU ambassador to Manila, Franz Jessen, confirmed that the Philippines had rejected €6.1 million worth of aid from the European Union. Human rights and development aid Duterte's firebrand politics and penchant for profanity took the world by surprise. Moreover, Manila's ties with Western nations have massively deteriorated under Duterte's presidency. "This president is difficult to deal with. However, from a policy and development lens, he's no different from all previous administrations. The reforms he has introduced are even more technocratic," Edmund Tayao, a political analyst, told DW. "Despite his acerbic comments, Duterte is still popular in the country. The criticism of traditional partners like the EU will only impact the country's foreign policy and relations, but not economic aid," said Tayao. Duterte's firebrand politics and penchant for profanity took the world by surprise Read more: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte threatens to eject EU ambassadors Still, the pressure is mounting on Duterte to recalibrate his human rights policies, particularly in relation to his war on drugs. Last month, the International Criminal Court (ICC) announced it would begin "preliminary examinations" to assess if a case should be filed against Duterte. This was followed by the Worldwide Threat Assessment report by the US Intelligence Community that dubbed Duterte one of the "regional threats to US national security in Southeast Asia." Read more: Philippines' Rodrigo Duterte rejects crimes against humanity probe into 'drug war' The government in Manila rejected the report, calling it "myopic and speculative at best." "It was not difficult to predict that the president would be defensive about such reports," Tony La Viña, an international law expert, told DW. "There have already been consequences for the development assistance. There could be more," La Viña added. Inmates who cannot be accommodated in the prison cells sleep on the ground in the open air. At present, it's rainy season in the Philippines. And in the current tropical temperatures, it's raining almost every day. Whoever possesses a hammock should consider themselves lucky. The prison, which was built 60 years ago, has a capacity to house 800 inmates. But today there are as many as 3,800. Every nook and corner in the prison is occupied. Most of the prisoners sleep on either thin sheets or bare concrete floor. A prisoner toughens up his muscles in an exercise room. Signboards remind inmates of prison rules. The handcuffed prisoners shown here are awaiting their trial. One prisoner cleans the toilet while the others try to kill time. Only occasionally can the prisoners free themselves of sweat, filth and stench. A guard locks the gate in the evening, while the inmates get ready for another night in the overcrowded prison. Many hold newly elected President Duterte responsible for the inhumane situation. His campaign against drugs has shown no mercy. He has called on the people to kill drug addicts, which has led to an unprecedented wave of vigilantism in the Southeast Asian nation. Cases have been filed against 600,000 drug dealers and addicts so far, completely overwhelming the justice system. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen / sri