1. Just one minister has a non-German parent. Roughly 13 percent of all Germans have a so-called migrant background, meaning that they or at least one of their parents didn't get their German citizenship at birth, according to the Federal Statistics Office (DeStatis). Most of these people have roots in either Turkey or former Sowjet states, such as Poland, Russia and Kazakhstan. In addition to that, around 10 million foreigners live in Germany. In Angela Merkel's new cabinet, however, only one person, justice minister Katarina Barley, has a non-German parent – her father is British. 2. Women make up roughly 44 percent of the cabinet. Six out of 15 ministers in the new German cabinet are women - and Angela Merkel of course also remains chancellor. All in all, 43.8 percent of the cabinet are women, just like in the last cabinet. This fairly even split among genders is largely thanks to Angela Merkel's conservatives, the CDU, who have staffed four out of seven cabinet positions with women, and the Social Democrats (SPD) - half of their six ministries are lead by women. The CDU's Bavarian sister party, the CSU - which is known to be significantly more conservative than the CDU - solely sents male ministers into the cabinet. (Worth noting: In the German parliament, less than 31 percent of seats are filled by women.) 3. The cabinet is on average seven years older than the German population. The average age of the population in Germany is 44 years and four months, according to DeStatis. Angela Merkel and her ministers are, on average, 51 years and two months old. Two ministers have not yet hit the big four-0: Health minister Jens Spahn (CDU) is 37, family minister Franziska Giffey (SPD) is 39. The oldest cabinet member is interior minister Horst Seehofer – the head of Bavaria's conservatives (68), followed by Chancellor Merkel, who is 63. 4. Chancellor Merkel is the lone natural scientist among lawyers and political scientists. All 16 members of the new cabinet have a university degree. Helge Braun (CDU), who will serve as head of the Chancellery, is a professor of medicine, five other cabinet members – including Angela Merkel - have a doctorate. The chancellor, who is a physicist, is the only cabinet member with a natural science degree. Six ministers studied political science, four hold law degrees, three have economics or business degrees, and two are medical doctors. 5. The former East is underrepresented, the Saarland overrepresented. Have you ever heard of the Saarland? The tiny South-Western state is the most overrepresented region in the cabinet. Only one percent of the German population lives there, but two key ministries are led by Saarländers: foreign minister Heiko Maas (SPD) and economics minister Peter Altmaier (CDU). Chancellor Merkel, who also represents a district in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in the federal parliament, is one of just two members of the new government who hail from states in former East Germany, along with family minister Franziska Giffey (SPD) from Berlin. So while 20 percent of the German population live in Eastern states, only 12.5 percent of the cabinet are from the former GDR. The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. After the SPD and CDU/CSU agreed on a policy blueprint, it became apparent that Sigmar Gabriel would not keep his position as head of the Foreign Ministry. He will be succeeded by former Justice Minister Heiko Maas. Scholz nomination for finance minister had been rumored for weeks. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD. Scholz will also serve as vice-chancellor. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. Heiko Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, but he's now taken over the reigns at the Foreign Ministry. Trained lawyer Katarina Barley will take on the post. She served as both minister of family affairs and minister of labor in 2017 as part of the previous government. Andrea Nahles will step down as labor minister to lead the SPD following Martin Schulz's decision to resign. Her successor, Hubertus Heil, was the surprise announcement when the SPD unveiled its Cabinet ministers. A member of the Bundestag since 1998, Heil has twice served as the party's secretary general. Barbara Hendricks, Germany's outgoing minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. While she may well have liked to stay on in her job, the SPD leadership announced it was seeking a successor. Svenja Schulze will take over, having previously served as minister for innovation, science and research in North Rhine-Westphalia. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Franziska Giffey's elevation from the mayor of Berlin's Neukölln district to Cabinet minister is perhaps the most eye-catching appointment. Giffey will bypass the Bundestag altogether to ascend into the government, but the SPD leadership believes her experience in charge of what has often been described as Berlin's "troubled" district makes her the most suitable candidate for the role. Gerd Müller, 62, has been tapped to retain his position as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. The CSU has thus chosen three men for its Cabinet posts, while Bär will become the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, is to take the Transport Ministry. He has had experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. Author: Carla Bleiker