German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel confirmed on Thursday that he will not be part of Chancellor Angela Merkel's new grand coalition government. The decision was made by the Social Democratic Party's (SPD) leadership, Gabriel said, adding that he was told of the decision late on Wednesday. Read more: Who will be in Merkel's new Cabinet? "I will continue to be a directly elected member of the German Bundestag," Germany's top diplomat said in a statement posted on Twitter, "but now the time ends in which I carry out leading political duties for the SPD. [Serving my party] has been a big honor for which I am deeply grateful." Who will succeed him? On Thursday, reports suggested that Justice Minister Heiko Maas would succeed Gabriel as head of the Foreign Ministry. German news agency dpa, as well as news weekly Der Spiegel, said they had learned of Maas' new position through party sources. Gabriel indirectly confirmed Maas' appointment during a press conference on Thursday. "If it's true that (Maas) is set to become justice minister," Gabriel said he would leave the Foreign Ministry "with an extremely good feeling." "He'll do excellently," Gabriel added. The SPD is slated to formally announce Gabriel's successor on Friday, as well as their other Cabinet appointments. Heiko Maas: Germany's new top diplomat? Who is Heiko Maas? After almost two decades in regional politics in his home state of Saarland, Maas was part of the SPD's team negotiators that went on to form a coalition government with Merkel's conservatives in 2013. He was subsequently appointed German Justice Minister. One of Maas' most well-known achievements from his four years in the role was his online hate speech law (also known as NetzDG), which forces social media companies to delete offensive potentially illegal content. While the law is divisive, it has been cited as an exemplary means of combating online hate crime and fake news. Read more: New German government: What is at stake for the EU? Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tjZr How did we get here? The SPD's decision to demote Gabriel is thought to have been spurred by the foreign minister's public falling out with former party head Martin Schulz. Gabriel accused Schulz of breaking his word and showing a lack of respect when reports surfaced that the then-SPD leader was vying for the foreign minister post. The SPD will work together with Merkel's conservatives in a second-successive grand coalition after the party's membership agreed to the coalition deal last Sunday. A party and government stalwart: Gabriel has been Germany's vice chancellor since 2013. He served as environment minister in Merkel's first grand coalition between 2005 and 2009, and as economy minister from 2013 to 2017. He took over from Frank-Walter Steinmeier as foreign minister at the beginning of last year. He was leader of the SPD from 2009 until 2017. The new chancellor will be the same as the old one: Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel. It will be her fourth term as leader of the German government and the third time she heads up a grand coalition between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). It is also expected to be her last term as chancellor. Helge Braun, who is currently minister of state at the Chancellery, has been nominated by Merkel for the promotion to Chancellery head. He would take over from Peter Altmaier. Braun's rise within the body would ensure a certain continuity. Seehofer, Bavaria's soon-to-be former state premier and chairman of the CSU, will head Germany's newly expanded Interior Ministry. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in a federal minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. The most-talked about position in the upcoming Cabinet is that of foreign minister. After the SPD and CDU/CSU agreed on a policy blueprint, it became apparent that Sigmar Gabriel would not keep his position as head of the Foreign Ministry. As to who will succeed him? Reports suggest that Justice Minister Heiko Maas has been offered the position. Scholz is all but set to be finance minister, and he will likely become vice-chancellor as well. Currently the mayor of Hamburg, he is considered the high-level SPD politician with the most financial expertise. Scholz has been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD in negotiations. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and has now been tapped by Merkel to keep the job. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops has suffered, but Merkel trusts her. German media has speculated that Von der Leyen could be a potential successor to Merkel. Altmaier, currently Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery, has been nominated to take over the Economy Ministry. This would be the first time in more than 50 years that a CDU politician holds that post. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Questions of renewable energy and energy networks will also fall into Altmaier's portfolio. Heiko Maas was justice minister during the last government's term, but he's now been lined up to lead the Foreign Ministry. While there is no clear cut successor lined up to replace Maas, Eva Högl could be a serious contender as the new justice head, given her legal expertise. The current minister in this position is Andrea Nahles (SPD), and she could keep it in the new government. But other possibilities that have been tossed about are Katarina Barley and Hubertus Heil, both also from the same party. Barbara Hendricks, Germany's current minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has reached retirement age. While she may well have liked to stay on in her job, the SPD leadership announced it was seeking a successor. Matthias Miersch and Svenja Schulze, both from the SPD's liberal flank, are the favorites for the role. The full name of the job Katarina Barley has held since June 2017 is minister of family affairs, senior citizens, women and youth. The trained lawyer may keep the post, but she also may move to a different ministry. Recent reports suggest that Franziska Giffey, the mayor Berlin's Neukölln district, could on the role. Merkel's nominee for health minister stands out: The 37-year-old Jens Spahn not only represents a new political generation within the CDU, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees. In the last government he served as the parliamentary state secretary for the finance ministry, but prior to that he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. The new education minister will have a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was recently increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements, especially with respect to digitalization. Gerd Müller, 62, has been tapped to retain his position as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. The CSU has thus chosen three men for its Cabinet posts, while Bär will become the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, is to take the Transport Ministry. He has had experience in the area: From 2009 to 2013, he held the position of parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Right now, he is the CSU's Secretary General. Klöckner has been tapped to head the Agriculture Ministry, where she worked as parliamentary state secretary from 2009 to 2011. She is currently a deputy federal chairwoman of her party and leads the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Klöckner is the perfect candidate for Merkel, who has been called upon to assemble a younger and more female Cabinet this time around. Author: Carla Bleiker dm/sms (dpa, Reuters)