Andrew Lloyd Webber remains an unparalleled talent. He has won numerous prestigious awards, among them Tonys, Grammys and an Oscar. Many of his melodies have been performed by world-class stars, with cover versions making it to the top of international charts. At one point, four of his musicals were shown simultaneously on Broadway. The British composer knows the secret to making a song a lasting success. Lloyd Webber and Rice (right) won Oscars for their song 'You Must Love Me' from 'Evita' in 1997 And he also knows how to choose the right partners — songwriter Tim Rice is a prime example. Together with Rice, Webber wrote his first musical, "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat" in 1968. Back then, Lloyd Webber was only 20 years old. Three years later, the team achieved its international breakthrough with the famous rock opera "Jesus Christ Superstar," particularly popular among the hippie community. In 1978, Lloyd Webber and Rice told the story of Eva Peron, the second wife of former Argentine president Juan Peronom "Evita." The song "Don't Cry For Me Argentina" became a huge hit, though the duo's third collaboration would be their last major production together. The composer was notorious for his angry outbursts. Rice had grown tired of his tantrums over the music, Lloyd Webber would later recount in his memoirs. "Looking back, I realize that my angst in the studio was the first of many meltdowns I have had. … I have behaved appallingly in theaters because of bad sound more times than I care to mention," he wrote. The musical 'Cats' has captivated audiences around the world for decades Blockbuster after blockbuster But ending the collaboration with Rice didn't affect Lloyd Webber's creativity. In 1981, the musical "Cats" premiered at the New London Theatre, with a story based on a collection of poems by T.S. Eliot entitled "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats." The world-famous musical, with its hit song "Memory," would go on to play for a record-breaking 21 years, ending its run in London's West End in 2002. It was followed by "Starlight Express" in 1984, and "The Phantom of the Opera" in 1986 — his biggest success. Lloyd Webber has continued to compose, with the 2015 musical "School of Rock" premiering on Broadway, the first British musical to do so. However, he hasn't matched the success of the 1970s and '80s. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1Gsvl Entrepreneur, politician and three-time husband Webber's father was a composer, and his mother a piano teacher. It didn't come as a surprise when he premiered his first composition at the age of 9. He would, naturally, go on to study music at school. Lloyd Webber was already a rich man at the age of 29. Today, his assets are estimated at almost €1 billion ($1.2 billion). In the 1970s, he founded the company Really Useful Group, which manages all the rights for his works and makes millions by selling copyrights. Madeleine Gurdon, Lloyd Webber's third wife, is a thoroughbred breeder and former event rider But it hasn't all been success; at times, the company also lost money, so much so that Lloyd Webber even considered selling his music empire. In an interview with the German daily Die Welt, he once called himself a "very, very bad businessman." Lloyd Webber sat in Britain's House of Lords as a Conservative for 20 years, before withdrawing from politics in 2017. He was knighted in 1992, and he's been married three times. His second wife, singer Sarah Brightman, debuted the role of Christine in "The Phantom of the Opera" in 1986. He married his third wife, Madeleine Gurdon, in 1991. Lloyd Webber has five children and several grandchildren. Music: Elixir of life Over his life, Lloyd Webber has faced several serious challenges, among them cancer, as well as addiction to drugs and alcohol. But he's been able to surmount these challenges with his music. "I'm a composer for the joy of it," he told Rolling Stone magazine earlier this month. "It's what I do, and it's what makes me tick, really. I always have melody in my head." In his honor, a musical gala will premiere in Basel on March 23, presenting Lloyd Webber's most beautiful melodies. The show is set to tour across Germany, Austria and Switzerland through next year. On April 1, US broadcaster NBC is set to air a live television special of "Jesus Christ Superstar," with R&B star John Legend as Jesus and cult rocker Alice Cooper as King Herod. Sebastian (Ryan Gosling) and Mia (Emma Stone) encounter each other right at the start of the film in a fast and furious musical scene set in LA's jammed traffic chaos. They dance across cars and sing at the top of their lungs. The opening is reminiscent of American musical film greats, but later scenes of Damien Chazelle's movie reflect more of French musical films by Jacques Demy. Hollywood choreographer Busby Berkeley worked in all sorts of dancers in the film "42nd Street" in 1933. His dance choreographies were famous for their complex, geometric moves, making him a leading figure in shaping the musical film genre in the 1930s. The opening scene in "La La Land" is a shining example of just such a grandiose choreography. Following its Golden Globe award in the category Best Film Comedy/Musical, this romance by Vincente Minnelli garnered six Oscars in 1952. As far as the Golden Globes go, "La La Land" has already surpassed "An American in Paris," taking home seven. The upcoming Oscars will be the greater test. "Singin' in the Rain" is a musical film classic and also one of the catchiest tunes ever. This scene showing actor and dancer Gene Kelly, who also directed the movie, is likely its most famous. "La La Land" pays tribute to "Singin'" in a scene with Ryan Gosling. Rain also plays a big role in the musical film "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg." "La La Land" director Damien Chazelle sees the movie as the "most perfect in form that I know." "I love it more than any other," he said about Jacques Demy's cinematic work from 1964. The bittersweet, melancholy atmosphere of the French film is what Chazelle revives in "La La Land." "The Sound of Music" followed in 1965 as the most successful film musical of all time. It was a cinematic version of the Broadway production and was particularly successful in the US. It continues to inspire various artists to this day, such as Gwen Stefani and Lady Gaga, who have paid tribute to the musical in their own work. Will "La La Land" also be able to boast such success? Jacques Demy's second work, "The Young Girls of Rochefort," likewise inspired "La La Land" in terms of style. The melancholy and atmospheric color of the French film are reflected in Chazelle's romance. These influences from the 1930s through the 1960s have shaped "La La Land" - a masterful tribute to the musical films of Hollywood and France set in a contemporary musical drama. Author: Bettina Baumann, Lina Friedrich (als)