Germany's annual Baltic Lights dogsled race was the target of a suspected sabotage incident on Saturday, when broken glass, nails and barbed wire were found on the racecourse. Police on the German-Polish island of Usedom said a witness reported seeing dangerous objects close to the racetrack just a few hours before the event was due to take place. "Officers from the Heringsdorf police station checked the specified area and found that unknown persons had scattered various nails, barbed wire and broken glass in a restricted area of the racetrack," a police statement said. After informing the race organizer, the track was cleaned, and the event was allowed to go ahead. Police have launched an investigation into who could have been responsible for the damage. Read more: A Winter Safari on Usedom Most husky races are organized on the snowy plains of the Arctic or North America. But on the northern German-Polish island of Usedom, around 400 dogs are taking part in a charity run this weekend, along the beach at Heringsdorf. The Baltic Lights races are being run between the piers at Heringsdorf and Ahlbeck. On Saturday, several German celebrities, including actress Ulrike Folkerts, gave their support, and were pulled by four huskies for one of the runs. Some 50 husky owner/trainers — known as mushers — from all over the world have entered their dogs for the two-day event, which hopes to raise thousands of euros for the German aid agency, Welthungerhilfe. Alaskan huskies are valued for their speed and endurance, and are often called upon to sprint distances of up to 48-kilometer (30 mile) daily, averaging 31 kilometers-per-hour (19 miles-per-hour). In comparison, Saturday's 6-kilometer event was a walk in the park. Author: Nik Martin Injuries averted The local mayor of the Kaiserbäd district denounced the disruption in an interview with the local newspaper, Ostsee Zeitung. "I don't know who did it. But there's no doubt that people and animals could have been seriously injured. I have no understanding why," said Mayor Lars Peterson. He said the charity event, which raises money for the aid agency Deutsche Welthungerhilfe (World Hunger Aid), is very important for the region: "That's why I'm really happy that our workers noticed and cleared it up in good time." The three-day Baltic Lights winter spectacle features German celebrities who are each pulled on sleds around the six-kilometer (3.7-mile) track by four dogs. About 50 dogsled leaders, known as mushers, enter some 400 huskies in the annual contest. Usedom is a major tourism destination due to its beaches and natural environment. It was split in two following World War II, with the eastern half assigned to Poland. Read more: Iditarod dog sled team tests positive for Tramadol in drug doping test The 2018 Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race began with a leisurely 11-mile trot through downtown Anchorage on Saturday, to give fans a chance to get up close with the mushers and their four-legged teammates. The race-proper begins on Sunday in the nearby town of Willow. The finish line is in the town of Nome on the Bering Sea. The 1,000-mile (1,600-kilometer) race has groups of dogs drag sled-riding mushers through grueling Alaskan conditions. Sixty-seven teams are vying for prizes worth $500,000 (€406,000) in the eight-day event. But this year's edition has been marred by a doping scandal revealed late last year. In October 2017, organizers revealed that four-time winner Dallas Seavey was involved in the race's first doping scandal. Four of his dogs tested positive for the powerful opioid painkiller tramadol, but he was controversially not disqualified as organizers couldn't prove it was him who had doped the dogs. In 2017 he came in second, behind his father Mitch. The race has also been hit with increasing pressure from animal rights activists and the associated loss of major sponsor Wells Fargo. Members of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, a notoriously outspoken activist group, brought five headstones with the names of dogs that died in 2017 to the starting parade. They estimate more than 150 dogs have died over the Iditarod's history. The race was founded in 1967 in tribute to the mushers and dogs who carried vital supplies to remote Alaskan outposts. The most famous run was in 1925, when a relay of teams delivered desperately-needed antitoxins during a blinding blizzard for children stricken by a diphtheria epidemic in Nome. This year, racers have been handed optimum trail conditions. Recent events have been affected by a warming climate with the trail often significantly rerouted north. In 2018, the race will follow a southern route for the first time since 2013. Author: Alistair Walsh (with AP, Reuters)