An aid convoy of 46 trucks finally entered Syria's Eastern Ghouta on Monday, but aid authorities have said they are concerned about ongoing shelling and the confiscation of medical supplies. The 400,000 civilian residents of the region have spent the past two weeks seeking shelter as Russian-backed government forces engage in one of the most intense sieges in the civil war's seven-year history. Read more: Syria: US accuses Russia of killing civilians in eastern Ghouta The Red Cross reported trucks were on their way to Eastern Ghouta Stripped of supplies Read more: UN says Syrian actions in Eastern Ghouta may amount to crimes against humanity More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel First step Senior UN official Ali al-Za'tari, who is accompanying the convoy, told Reuters he was "not really happy hearing the loud shelling that is around us" and that "we need to be assured that we will be able to deliver the humanitarian assistance under good conditions." He also said it would take "many hours" to unload the trucks and that it might be "well after nightfall" before they could return. A spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross said the delivery was a "first positive step" but that more needs to be done. Ingy Sedky said they needed repeated and continuous access to eastern Ghouta. Read more: UN calls on Russia to implement full 30-day ceasefire in Eastern Ghouta Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tZ2t Stalled attempts: For nearly three weeks aid agencies have been trying to enter the besieged rebel-held enclave since the opening of daily so-called "humanitarian corridors" but have been hampered by ongoing shelling and stringent time constraints. Ongoing siege: Syrian government forces lost control of the semi-rural region in 2012 and recently launched a major offensive to regain control from Islamist and jihadi groups. As of Monday the Syrian regime control a third of the rebel enclave, a monitor said. Syria's Central Military Media said troops advancing from the east were only 3 kilometers (1.8 miles) from meeting up with troops advancing from the west, which would cut the area in two. War crimes: The UN has accused Syrian forces of perpetrating war crimes in its bloody push into Eastern Ghouta, home to 400,000 people. On Monday the UN human rights body launched an investigation into attacks on civilians trapped in the area, and strongly condemned the bombardment of hospitals, the blockade of aid convoys and the alleged use of chemical weapons. Read more: What foreign powers want from the Syrian war aw/rt (Reuters, dpa, AFP, AP)