European Parliament President Antonio Tajani said Thursday that, should Italian conservatives win in the upcoming general elections, he would be open to serve as Italy's next prime minister. "I thank President Berlusconi for his show of esteem towards me. Tonight I told him about my availability to serve Italy," he wrote on Twitter. Tajani is a close ally of three-time Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. The two politicians have been linked since Berlusconi first entered politics in the early 1990s. Read more: Who is Antonio Tajani, the European Parliament's new president? Berlusconi himself is legally barred from holding elected office due to a fraud conviction and he had previously indicated that Tajani would be his favored choice for the PM post, if his side is victorious in the elections. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2q5IH "I am pleased to be able to announce the good news that the current president of the European Parliament has made up his mind and indicated that he is willing to lead a future center-right government," Berlusconi said on Canale 5, one of his TV networks. "I know it's a shame to take Antonio Tajani away from Europe, but it's in the best interest of Italy," Berlusconi added. Read more: Italy's Five Star Movement feeds on voters' anger Antonio Tajani has a two-decade-long career in EU institutions. He was first elected to the EU parliament in 1994 and has previously served as European commissioner for transport and industry. He became president of the EU parliament in January 2017, when Martin Schulz left the post to return to national German politics. Although Tajani was one of the founding members of Berlusconi's political party Forza Italia and served as the ex-prime minister's spokesman from 1994 to 1995, he has never held public office in his home country. Italians will head to the polls on March 4 to elect representatives in the lower house Chamber of Deputies and upper house Senate, in the midst of a fragmented political landscape and with a complicated new electoral law in place that mixes proportional representation with first-past-the-post. Born in Milan in 1936, Berlusconi started out his career as a singer on cruise ships in the 1950s before rising to become a major player in Italy's media landscape. He created the first (and only) Italian TV commerical empire, and created media groups with huge portfolios like Fininvest. He also owned the highly successful soccer team AC Milan from 1986 to 2016. Before founding his center-right Forza Italia ("Let's go Italy") party in 1993, Berlusconi enjoyed the friendship of Prime Minister Benito Craxi. After Craxi was forced out of politics by a corruption scandal, Berlusconi presented himself as a brash but honest, self-made man, a moderate and supporter of the free market. Forza Italia remains largely a party ideologically aligned around its leader. Berlusconi would come to dominate Italian politics for the next two and a half decades. First elected to the lower house of parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, in 1994, Berlusconi had three stints as prime minister between that year and 2011. He was repeatedly accused of corruption and authoritarianism during his tenure. Berlusconi formed strong friendships with world leaders of a similar ilk, including Russian President Vladimir Putin. He had highly antagonistic relationships with leaders who criticized him, such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He once caused a stir in the European Parliament in 2008 by telling then-EU lawmaker Martin Schulz he could play a Nazi in one of his upcoming films. After being hit with claims of paying bribes, abuse of office, tax fraud and defamation, in 2011 Berlusconi was forced to resign. He was accused of organizing hedonistic celebrations that involved sex with minors, called "bunga bunga" parties. At the center of the scandal was exotic dancer Karima El Mahroug. Berlusconi was first found guilty, but his conviction was overtuned on appeal in 2014. After avoiding major legal repercussions for years, Berlusconi was finally convicted of tax fraud in 2013 and banned from holding public office until 2019. Because he was over the age of 70 at the time of his conviction, he was sentenced to carry out community service in lieu of jail time. He works about four hours a week at an elderly care facility helping dementia patients. Although he cannot hold office, Berlusconi has been amassing a right-wing bloc that is currently leading the polls ahead of Italy's general election on March 4. Forza Italia has been bolstered by the support of the far-right Lega Nord (Northern League) and its leader Matteo Salvini (right). The Lega promotes euroskeptic and anti-immigrant policies. Berlusconi welcomes comparisons to US President Donald Trump in terms of populism, lifestyle, attitude and backgrounds. Shortly after Trump's victory, Berlusconi commended his focus on the "weak citizens harassed by the state, taxes, bureaucracy, uncontrolled immigration, unemployment and the danger of terrorism." Despite this, Berlusconi is keen to point out that he made his money on his own. Despite endless legal troubles and little legislative or economic sucess, Berlusconi has vowed not to step away from politics. He has vowed to remain the custodial leader of Forza Italia during his public office ban, and to contest another election as soon as he is able. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher jcg/rc (Reuters, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.