H.R. McMaster, a highly decorated three-star general, lasted more than one year in Donald Trump's revolving door White House. That is a solid record for anyone besides Trump relatives working in the president's inner circle. His predecessor, Michael Flynn, another former military officer, lasted less than one month in Trump's White House orbit and later pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about his contacts with Russian government as part of the special counsel Robert Mueller probe. Read more: John Bolton to replace H.R. McMaster as Donald Trump's national security adviser When there's no chemistry with the president But as with ousted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who bade farewell to the State Department on Wednesday, McMaster's personal relationship to the president — the key factor for survival in the Trump White House — had reportedly been on the rocks for months — if it ever really existed in the first place. Michael Knigge reports for DW from Washington, DC The serious McMaster had reportedly clashed with the unorthodox Trump not only in style but also on signature issues like dealing with Iran and Russia. McMaster argued against nixing the Iran deal and for a hard line on Russia. Welcoming a reckless warmonger The general's remark at the recent Munich Security Conference that Russia had undoubtedly interfered in the US presidential election triggered a public Twitter rebuke from his boss and probably marked the beginning of the end of his tenure. He is bound to be missed by many, including US lawmakers and foreign diplomats who regarded him as trusted official and conversation partner — even though he clearly is a hawk. Like his successor, John Bolton, McMaster publicly contemplated what he called a "preventive strike" against North Korea. But unlike Bolton, he has not been viewed as reckless or a warmonger. Read more: Can the trans-Atlantic relationship survive Donald Trump? Those two traits describe Bolton's reputation in a nutshell. And his reputation is well earned. Bolton was one of the most ardent and publicly outspoken supporters of President George W. Bush's disastrous decision to invade Iraq. Bolton's brief tenure as ambassador to the United Nations, a position he was never confirmed for by the US Senate, was marked by his openly hostile views towards the organization. Judging by a December opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal titled "How to defund the UN," Bolton's positions have not changed. On Iran, Bolton has expressed similarly bellicose views as he had on Iraq. He has repeatedly called for regime change in Iran. More importantly, in an opinion piece for The New York Times, Bolton three years ago made the case "To stop Iran's bomb, bomb Iran." Just two months ago, he again opined in the Wall Street Journal that Trump should pull the US out of the international Iran agreement, a "diplomatic Waterloo" that "no fix can remedy." For good measure, in the same article, he again advocated for regime change in Iran. Still winter in Washington The selection of Bolton as Trump's national security advisor shortly before the president will decide whether to pull the US out the Iran nuclear agreement does not bode well for the future of a deal the Europeans and others desperately want to preserve. Spring officially began two days ago in Washington, but after the opening salvo being launched in a trade conflict with China and the announcement of Bolton as national security adviser, it still feels like winter in the US capital. In a tweet on March 22, US President Trump announced he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton as his national security adviser. A respected general, McMaster said he would retire from the US Army and public service. McMaster's departure was not a complete surprise as he and Trump are reported to have had conflicting views on a number of US policies. A former Exxon executive, Tillerson had served as secretary of state for a little over a year. Donald Trump ousted Tillerson in order to form a "new team" ahead of talks with North Korea, adding that he and Tillerson "disagreed on things." The relationship between them is said to have deteriorated after Tillerson reportedly called Trump a "moron" in October 2017. A Goldman Sachs veteran, Gary Cohn served as Donald Trump's top economic adviser at the head of the National Economic Council. He helped push through controversial tax reforms in 2017. However, Cohn stepped down in March 2018 after failing to persuade Trump to give up his idea of imposing tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Hope Hicks resigned from her post as the White House Communications Director in late February 2018. A day before resigning, she testified before US lawmakers on Russian interference. She admitted to telling "white lies" for Donald Trump, but not related to Russia. The White House insisted her resignation was not linked to the testimony. The 29-year-old former model was among Trump's closest aides. The White House staff secretary handed in his resignation after his ex-wives accused him of domestic abuse. Despite resigning, Rob Porter denied the allegations as "simply false." Trump initially defended Porter, and the US media questioned if and how Porter passed his background check for the job. Recently, reports surfaced of a romance between Porter and Trump's longtime aide Hope Hicks. He played a key role in getting Donald Trump into the White House, but even chief strategist Stephen Bannon was ousted within a year. Bannon was a champion of economic nationalism and Trump's "America First" strategy. After the fallout of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville mid-Aigust, Bannon agreed to leave the administration. The 53-year-old former hedge fund investor nicknamed the "Mooch" was communications director for just 10 days. The colorful New Yorker filled a dream role that had been vacant for months, but was forced out on the same day that straight-shooting former Marine Corps general John Kelly became chief of staff. Trump was displeased with his infamous expletive-laden rant against other senior staff. Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, resigned in July 2017 after clashing with the White House over Trump's complicated financial holdings. Shaub reportedly called Trump's administration a "laughing stock." Reince Priebus, the former White House chief-of-staff, was forced out just six months into his tenure after a public feud with Anthony Scaramucci, the White House communications director. Priebus was reportedly among those West Wing staffers who opposed the hire of Scaramucci. Sean Spicer, who had a fraught relationship with the president and the press, resigned after telling Trump he vehemently disagreed with the selection of Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director. Michael Dubke, the former White House communications director, was asked to leave in May 2017 over what was perceived as his poor handling of the allegations involving Russian involvement in the US election. US President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey - allegedly over how he handled the Clinton emails investigation. Critics, however, believe the FBI's probe into Trump's campaign ties with Russia was the real reason. Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in February 2017 after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office and misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations.