Four people were seriously injured in two knife attacks in Vienna on Wednesday evening. The motive and connection between both assaults remains unclear. The first stabbing took place near the Nestroyplatz metro station, in Vienna's Second District, where authorities said an assailant attacked a family of three with a knife in front of a Japanese restaurant. The mother, father and their 17-year-old daughter are reported to be seriously injured and "their lives are in danger", a police spokesman said. Thirty minutes later, the second stabbing took place in the same neighborhood, where a 20-year-old Chechen was stabbed by an unknown attacker. Authorities say that the young man's life is also in danger, as a result of his injuries. Read more: Austrian teen charged with plotting terror attack with 12-year-old in Germany Male suspect Austrian police said they knew "absolutely nothing" about the possible suspect or whether the two incidents are related. They only indicated that they were searching for a male suspect. Police have been questioning several witnesses at the scene. One Afghan male was taken into custody in connection with the second assault, but no information was provided from authorities on the arrest. The neighborhood of Praterstern, where both stabbings took place, is home to much of Vienna's small Jewish community, the famous Prater park and the Praterstern transportation hub. The Austrian capital has not experienced any acts or terrorism or attacks by Islamist militants like the ones that have occurred in Paris, Berlin and Brussels since 2015. es,jcg /aw (AP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Vienna's historical and tourist center lies in the 1st District. Opposite the Palais Equitable (center left), St. Stephen's Cathedral is reflected in the Haas House (right), designed by Austrian architect Hans Hollein. Opened in 1990, the building, with its mirrored windows and curved, projecting façade, caused controversy. Is it a brutal eyesore or the arrival of modernism at long last? Vienna has been ahead of its time before. This Jugendstil building from 1897/98 bears the inscription "To every age its art; to every art its freedom," the credo of the Vienna Secession, a group of artists led by the painter Gustav Klimt. They sought new, modern forms of expression in their works. Regilding work on its leafwork dome, nicknamed the "cabbage head," will finish in April. Gustav Klimt (1862-1918) created a frieze, now in a special room in the basement, for an exhibition in 1902, taking Beethoven's 9th symphony as its theme. Over 34 meters, an interconnected series of frescoes depicts humanity's yearning for happiness. Because of renovation work in the Secession, the Beethoven frieze cannot be viewed between February 26 and March 9, 2018. The Beethoven frieze is considered a major highlight of Viennese art nouveau. It also began what is known as its creator Klimt’s Golden Phase. This “Choir of Angels,” and “Embracing Couple,” as well as his famous paintings “The Kiss,” “Judith,” and “Adele Bloch-Bauer” all belong to that period. The last-mentioned provided exciting material for the 2015 film “Woman in Gold” with Helen Mirren. One of the world’s loveliest art nouveau churches was designed by the Viennese architect Otto Wagner (1841-1918). Built between 1904 and 1907, it’s considered the first modernist era church in Europe. His fellow artist Koloman Moser from the Vienna Secession designed the stained glass mosaic windows. When it was renovated in 2006, two kilograms of gold leaf were needed for the dome alone. Altars, tabernacle, confessional box, a hygienically dripping holy water font, light fixtures and even the priests‘ vestments were made according to Otto Wagner’s designs. When the Church of St. Leopold opened it was criticized harshly by the Archduke Franz Ferdinand (1863-1914), who preferred imperial pomp and circumstance. The church can be viewed at weekends for an entrance fee. Two pavilions on Karlsplatz show how beauty and practicality can be combined. They were set for demolition when the square's subway station was built, but after public outcry were renovated and reassembled two meters above their original level. They no longer provide direct access to the underground platforms. The western pavilion is now part of the Wien Museum; the eastern one is a café. Apartment blocks were among the striking buildings Otto Wagner designed in Vienna during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. One is the Majolica House, at Linke Wienzeile 40. The architect, also a committed urban planner, had it covered completely with decorative floral tiles at his own expense. It was meant to be both beautiful and practical. The ceramic surfaces are easy to clean. There was always a bridge at this location – first wooden, then walled. In 1904 the bridge over the street was rebuilt as an art nouveau structure, and it’s now historically listed. Views of its previous incarnations are engraved on its marble cladding. From Wippinglerstrasse above, stairways on either side of the bridge lead down to the Tiefer Graben, which it spans. Because Vienna owes so much of its beauty to Jugendstil, the city is devoting special exhibitions to Viennese art nouveau icons Gustav Klimt, Otto Wagner, Koloman Moser and Egon Schiele in 2018, the year that marks the centenary of their deaths. The view from Leopoldsberg, the city’s best-known hill, shows Vienna's beauty as a city of bridges as well. It is said to have more than 1700 of them. Author: Ille Simon (ms)