Police said a very rare nerve agent was suspected to be behind the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter, which has prompted speculation of Moscow's involvement. Police said on Wednesday that they were investigating the incident as an "attempted murder." "This is being treated as a major incident involving attempted murder by administration of a nerve agent," Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner Mark Rowley said in a statement. "I can also confirm that we believe the two people originally who became unwell were targeted specifically." Investigators said they would not be releasing additional information about the exact type of nerve agent they believe left Sergei Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter, Yulia, slumped over a bench outside a shopping center in the southwestern town of Salisbury on Sunday. They remain critically ill in the hospital. Sky News reported late on Wednesday that all three victims are in a coma. At least one police officer is also reportedly receiving treatment for exposure to the agent. A British medical official said the agent poses a "low risk" to the general public. "We need to keep a cool head and make sure we collect all the evidence we can," UK Home Secretary Amber Rudd said after chairing a government emergency committee meeting. "We need to make sure we respond not to rumor but to all the evidence that they collect. And then we need to decide what action to take." The investigation is likely to take time, Rudd added. She is expected to make a statement in parliament on Thursday. Sergei Skripal, a 66-year-old former Russian spy, was found unconscious on a bench outside a shopping center in the British city of Salisbury after he was exposed to what police said was an unknown substance. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the situation "tragic" but said, "We don't have information about what could be the cause, what this person did." The estranged half-brother of Kim Jong Un was killed on February 13, 2018 at Kuala Lumpur airport after two women allegedly smeared the chemical nerve agent VX on his face. In February, a Malaysian court heard that Kim Jong Nam had been carrying a dozen vials of antidote for the deadly nerve agent VX in his backpack at the time of the poisoning. Former Russian spy Litvinenko had worked for the Federal Security Service (FSB) before he defected to Britain, where he became a journalist and wrote two books of accusations against the FSB and Putin. He became ill after meeting with two former KGB officers and died on November 23, 2006. A government inquiry found he was killed by radioactive polonium-210 which it alleged the men put in his tea. In November 2010, doctors at Berlin's Charité hospital discovered high levels of mercury had been found in a Russian dissident couple working in Berlin. Kalashnikov, a freelance journalist and former KGB colonel, had 3.7 micrograms of mercury per litre of blood, while his wife had 56 micrograms. A safe level is 1-3 micrograms. Viktor reportedly told German magazine Focus that "Moscow poisoned us." Ukrainian opposition leader Yushchenko became sick in September 2004 and was diagnosed with acute pancreatis caused by a viral infection and chemical substances. The illness resulted in facial disfigurement, with pockmarks, bloating and jaundice. Doctors said the changes to his face were from chloracne, which is a result of dioxin poisoning. Yushchenko claimed government agents poisoned him. On September 25, 1997, Israel's intelligence agency attempted to assassinate Hamas leader Meshaal, under orders from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Two agents sprayed a poisonous substance into Meshaal's ear as he walked into the Hamas offices in Amman, Jordan. The assassination attempt was unsuccessful and not long afterward the two Israeli agents were captured. In 1978, Bulgarian dissident Markov was waiting at a bus stop after a shift at the BBC when he felt a sharp jab in his thigh. He turned to see a man picking up an umbrella. A small bump appeared where he felt the jab and four days later he died. An autopsy found he'd been killed by a small pellet containing a 0.2-milligram dose of ricin. Many believe the poisoned dart was fired from the umbrella. On December 30, 1916, mystic and spiritual healer Rasputin arrived at Yusupov Palace in St Petersburg at the invitation Prince Felix Yusupov. There, Prince Yusupov offered Rasputin cakes laced with potassium cyanide but he just kept eating them. Yusupov then gave him wine in a cyanide-laced wine glasses, but still Rasputin continued to drink. With the poison failing, Rasputin was shot and killed. Author: Louisa Wright Widening probe Police are asking to speak to any witnesses who visited a pizza restaurant or pub where the two were seen on Sunday. The area in and around Salisbury has been cordoned off. Hundreds of counter-terrorism detectives are working "around the clock" on a timeline of the victims' movements and are reviewing "many hours" of CCTV footage, police said. The Times newspaper reported that investigators are also looking into the deaths of Skripal's wife and son. His wife died of cancer in 2012 and his son of liver problems last year in St. Petersburg. Speculation is rife that Russia attempted to assassinate the former military intelligence double agent. Britain blamed Russia for the 2006 poisoning of former Russian spy and Kremlin critic Alexander Litvinenko. British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson suggested Sunday's incident had "echoes" of the Litvinenko assassination. The Zizzi pizza restaurant where the two ate has been cordoned off. Moscow has denied any involvement and blamed anti-Russian bias from the media and politicians for trying to harm relations between the two countries. "It's very hard not to assess this as provocative black PR designed to complicate relations between our two countries," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Wednesday. Skripal divulged the identities of Russian agents in Europe to Western intelligence and was imprisoned in 2006. He was freed in 2010 as part of a spy swap that saw the United States hand over 10 members of a Russian spy cell in exchange for four Russians convicted of spying for Western intelligence agencies. Royal World Cup boycott Prime Minister Theresa May said the government could consider a boycott by British officials - but not include players - at the 2018 soccer World Cup in Russia this summer if Moscow is found to have been involved. "Depending on what comes out in relation to the investigation [...} it might be appropriate for the government to look at whether ministers and other dignitaries should attend the World Cup in Russia," she said on Wednesday. Several British media outlets said that Prince William would now not attend the World Cup in Russia, citing royal sources. cw/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters)