Syrian Television on Tuesday showed sick and injured civilians being evacuated from the rebel enclave in eastern Ghouta. The UN Resident Coordinator in Syria confirmed that it expected the evacuations to include "people with medical conditions." The Reuters News Agency reported that some 100 people were able to leave eastern Ghouta so far on Tuesday, citing the Russian news agency Interfax. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uDM1 The Syrian army has led a month-long campaign of air and artillery strikes in eastern Ghouta, the last big rebel bastion near the Damascus, which has left more than 1,100 civilians dead, according to the UN. Read more: Which rebel groups are fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta? Tuesday's evacuees would be the first people to leave the conflict-ridden area since a Russian-led short ceasefire was agreed to last month. SANA news agency reported that the families left the eastern Ghouta through a "safe corridor" at the al-Wafideen crossing point. The state-run al-Ikhbariya TV broadcaster showed people, including sick and injured, being accompanied by army forces. Syria's Red Crescent said it was prepared to help people in need of medical care who were leaving the battered rebel enclave in a tweet on Tuesday. On Monday, the group had announced that it would treat people outside of eastern Ghouta through an agreement "via the United Nations with Russia." The Syrian government's assault on eastern Ghouta has become one of the biggest offensives of the war. If successful, it could deal the rebels their biggest defeat since the battle of Aleppo in 2016. Read more: Eastern Ghouta tragedy pits neighbors against each other The 400,000 residents in eastern Ghouta have faced severe shortages of food and medicines, even before the latest escalation of violence. US AmbassadorNikki Haley told the UN Security Councilon Monday that the Russia-led ceasefire "has failed" and has proposed a new draft resolution that would call for a 30-day truce in the eastern Ghouta and Damascus. More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel jcg/rc (Reuters, dpa, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.