With their 1-0 win over Hannover in Commerzbank Arena on Saturday, Frankfurt increased their chances of returning to European competition for the first time in six seasons. Their victory bumped them up to fourth place in the tight race for second, way adrift of Bayern Munich. The Eagles were in a similar position last season as well, sitting in third after 19 league matches. But they did not win the rest of the season and ultimately finished in the bottom half of the table. The only consolation for Frankfurt fans was a trip to the German Cup final in Berlin for the first time since 2006, where they lost 2-1 to Dortmund. Frankfurt face stiff competition for Champions League and Europa League places this season as Schalke and Leverkusen, who also won their respective Bundesliga games on Saturday, push to return to European competition themselves. However, sporting director Fredi Bobic and head coach Niko Kovac have taken steps to prevent the Eagles from tailing off again this time around. Read more: Bundesliga Matchday 25 roundup Aggressiveness backed by squad depth Kovac's Frankfurt set the league alight last season with aggressive football — hard tackles and vehement attempts to win the ball quickly. But that approach often got them into trouble: They led the division with 84 total yellow cards and 6 total red cards by the campaign's end. The lack of discipline resulted in a slew of suspensions. By the end of the season, Kovac was struggling to field a full team and bench. Their fiery defending hasn't gone away this season, but Bobic ensured his coach had enough squad depth this time around. Frankfurt have been much more resilient as a result; they have bounced back from every league defeat this season, winning their next Bundesliga match on all seven occasions. Frankfurt's depth was on full display against Hannover on Saturday. Kovac elected to keep several of his regulars — defender Marco Russ and midfielders Kevin Prince Boateng and Mijat Gacinovic — on the bench on Saturday. When defender Simon Falette picked up a yellow card in the first half, Russ replaced him at the break. Boateng and Gacinovic also came off the bench to help the Eagles see out the victory. This is a luxury Kovac has not had in the past in Frankfurt, and it might just help him guide Frankfurt back to Europe. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2riob Well-rounded attack For many years, Frankfurt relied on attacker Alexander Meier to get them the goals they needed. This season, Frankfurt have five players who have at least four goals, the first time that has been the case since the 2009-10 season. Read more: Opinion: Frankfurt fan defiance demands respect Sebastien Haller is Frankfurt's top scorer with eight this season. But even though he hasn't scored in six straight games, Frankurt have still managed to win four of those matches. Teams who can get goal contributions from a number of different sources tend to be more consistent — consider Cologne's collapse after they parted ways with striker Anthony Modeste. Patience pays off For a team that defends so hectically, their passing play is both judicious and yet direct when an opportunity arises. They are 13th in the Bundesliga in passes per game this season and yet are sixth in assists, which shows how effective their passing can be. Marius Wolf is perhaps the best example of that as he leads the team with six assists this season. But patience doesn't apply to just passing, but also waiting for individual opportunities. Players like defender Danny Da Costa and forward Luka Jovic had to wait for their chances to play, but both pounced on chances when they came their way. Da Costa, who's started Frankfurt's last four, scored the only goal of the game on Saturday against Hannover. Jovic has started just four league games this season, but has scored four times for Frankfurt, twice as a substitute. If Frankfurt can maintain their consistency — especially as the bigger fish around them continue to flounder — then European football is a real possibility. Marco Reus pumped his fist in the air after scoring the equalizing goal in the first half of Dortmund's 1-1 draw with Leipzig. The German forward, who returned from a 9-month injury layoff at the beginning of February, has scored in each of Dortmund's last three league games. Filip Kostic (pictured) had a chance to end Hamburg's downward spiral when he attempted to give his side the lead against Mainz from the penalty spot. The Serbian winger was left scratching his head after his spot kick was saved by 20-year-old Mainz goalkeeper Florian Müller, who was making his professional debut. Danny Da Costa (right) had his eyes on the prize when he attacked a corner from Jonathan de Guzman to score Frankfurt's only goal in their 1-0 win over Hannover. The goal was his first of the season, giving him a bigger case to get more playing time in Frankfurt's midfield. Schalke goalkeeper Ralf Fährmann went horizontal as he tipped away a shot attempt from Hertha's Davie Selke. The Royal Blues wound up keeping their second straight clean sheet in a 1-0 win over the Berliners. Andrej Kramaric (front) got a much deserved cuddle from teammate Florian Grillitsch (back) after scoring Hoffenheim's first goal in their 2-0 win over Augsburg. The goal was Kramaric's sixth in his last five games. Lucas Alario (left) scored from the spot and set one up from open play as Leverkusen bested Wolfsburg 2-1. Alario has netted six since joining Leverkusen's well-stocked strike force. Youngster Julian Brandt scored another off the bench on Saturday, after Karim Bellarabi made way. Borussia Mönchengladbach's early two-goal lead always looked fragile in Friday's game. Werder Bremen refused to let the game go. But it was from a second-half corner that the visitors found a way back into the match. Tom Delaney lost his man, Reece Oxford, in the penalty area melee, and not a single Foal was awake to the danger posed by a free man on the penalty spot.