The woman, named as "Myriam" by local media, was handed a seven-month suspended prison term for condoning terrorism under France's anti-terror security laws in the southwestern town of Saint-Gaudens on Thursday. She had written on Facebook on Monday that "justice" had been served when a butcher was killed during an Islamist attack last week. The vegan — who lives in Saint Gaudens, a village near the town of Trebes where the attack by an Islamic extremist occurred — wrote about the killing of butcher Christian Medves at a Super U supermarket. "So then, you are shocked that a murderer is killed by a terrorist," wrote the animal rights activist. "Not me. I've got zero compassion for him, there's justice in it." New security laws taking effect The court applied France's stringent anti-terror security laws, under which anyone suspected of commenting favorably on terrorism can be charged. Doing so online carries a maximum jail term of seven years and a fine of up to €100,000 ($125,000), local prosecutor Cecile Deprade told the French news agency AFP. Police noticed the Facebook message by the vegan cheesemaker on Monday night. La Depeche du Midi newspaper reported that "Myriam" said she had deleted her comment within two hours and thought it had been visible only to her friends. Moroccan-born Radouane Lakdim killed four people during his attack, three in the supermarket, including Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame and Medves. Lakdim was shot dead by police. A man fatally stabs two women in the Marseille train station. The perpetrator, Ahmed Hanachi, is shot dead by police on patrol. IS claims responsibility for the attack in a post on its news agency Amaq. In it, they call Hanachi one of the group's "soldiers." Two Interior Ministry officials resign after it is revealed that Hanachi was an undocumented immigrant who they had failed to detain. A gunman open fires on police on the Champs-Elysees, Paris' most iconic boulevard. One police officer is killed and two individuals are injured before police shoot the gunman dead. A note praising IS is found next to the gunman's body. The terrorist group also claims responsibility. The attack occurs just days before the first round of the French presidential election. Security is tightened. Soldiers shoot and serevely injury a knife-weilding man outside the Louvre museum in Paris after he assails them. One soldier is lightly injured. The attacker had two further machetes in his backpack. A subsequent investigation reveals that the Egyptian national had traveled to France from Dubai on a valid tourist visa. A Twitter account associated with the man's name refers to IS in posts. Two teens enter a church in Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, Normandy and slit the throat of an 85-year-old priest in front of five parishioners. Police shoot the 19-year-olds dead as they try to leave. IS takes responsibility and publishes a video of the teens pledging allegiance to the group. Many French Muslims attend the next Sunday's mass to show solidarity with Catholics and condemn the attack. On Bastille Day, France's national holiday, a truck drives through crowds in Nice that had gathered to watch the fireworks on a major beachside promenade. Before being shot dead by police, the driver kills 86 and injuries more than 400 others. IS claims responsibility, stating that the attacker had responded to IS calls to target civilians living of coalition nations fighting IS in Syria and Iraq. It is France's most deadly terror attack: IS jihadis armed with automatic weapons and explosives undertake coordinated attacks in Paris including at the Bataclan concert hall, the national stadium and various street cafes. The mass shootings and suicide bombings kill 130 people, injuring hundreds more. IS claims responsibility. Then-President Francois Hollande says it is an act of war by IS. A deadly attack is averted: on a high-speed train from Amsterdam to Paris, a man open fires with an assualt rifle that subsequently jams. Other train passengers tackle the man, preventing deadly violence. Four are injured including the attacker. The assailant had been known to French security officials for past drug-related activities and statements in defense of radical Islamist violence. Yassin Salhi beheads his boss, covering the head in Arabic and placing it on the gate outside the US-based industrial gas company Air Productions, located near Lyon. He also tries to blow up the factory by driving his van into the gas cylinders. The intent fails but unleashes a smaller explosion, injuring two. French authorities claim links between the man and IS. He commits suicide in prison. First, two men with automatic guns storm the offices of satire magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 12 and wounding 12 others. A different gunman kills a police officer the next day, then four more during a hostage-taking on the 9th in a kosher grocery. Police eventually shoot all three gunmen dead, but not before they claim allegiance to IS and al-Qaida. Many demonstrate solidarity with those killed. Author: Cristina Burack "I can understand that you can love and defend animals, but not to the point where you hate humans," Franck Alberti, a lawyer close to the butcher's family, was quoted as saying by Le Parisien newspaper. The French Butchers' Confederation called the post "dreadful" and urged respect for Medves, a 50-year-old father of two. It said it had also filed the legal complaint against the author of the post. Second sentence in a week Stephane Poussier, a left-wing activist who stood for parliament last June, was handed a one-year suspended jail term on Tuesday over comments he posted on Twitter over the same attack. Poussier had welcomed the death of Beltrame, a police colonel who exchanged himself for a hostage but was then killed. President Emmanuel Macron led tributes on Wednesday at a national commemoration for Beltrame. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uv5t jbh/bw (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.