On June 27, 1976, an Air France flight from Tel Aviv to Paris with more than 250 passengers on board was hijacked. German left-wing extremists, Wilfried "Bonni" Böse and Brigitte Kuhlmann, along with two members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), took over the airplane. Among other things, the hijackers demanded the release of Palestinian prisoners and military personnel detained in Israel. In addition, they called for authorities to free members of the German terrorist group, the Red Army Faction (RAF), from prison. Read more: Left-wing extremism: German police step up search for former RAF terrorists The flight was piloted by the kidnappers to the Ugandan city of Entebbe, where they received support from dictator Idi Amin and his soldiers. They arrived hoping that the location was too far away for the Israeli military. Upon arrival in Entebbe, the two Germans divided the passengers: Israeli citizens and passenger believed to be Jewish remained while the others were released. The hostages endured seven days before the Israeli military launched a spectacular action to liberate them. Jose Padilha brings the hijacking to the big screen The drama is brought to life in "7 Days in Entebbe," a new film by Brazilian director Jose Padilha that stars Daniel Brühl and Rosamund Pike. After premiering at the Berlinale film festival in February, the movie has now hit the big screen in the US. But it's not the first time this hostage crisis has been brought to the big screen. Just six months after the bloody end to the hijacking, the US broadcaster ABC released "Victory at Entebbe" with Anthony Hopkins and Kirk Douglas. Actors Rosamund Pike and Daniel Brühl spoke to audiences at the Berlinale about the film Several months later, NBC produced "Raid on Entebbe;" and in 1977, the Israeli production, "Operation Thunderbolt" cast German actor Klaus Kinski as one of the hijackers. The films showed the results of the courageous action taken by the Israeli military to free the hostages. Thanks to the efforts of the elite Israeli soldiers, over 100 hostages were rescued alive; four, however, did not survive the operation, which also killed the hijackers and around 20 Ugandan soldiers. Yonatan Netanyahu, lieutenant colonel and brother of the current Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin, likewise died during the operation. Read more: Lufthansa's hijacked 'Landshut' plane returns to Germany Witnesses were on set — and on hand at the Berlinale Speaking at the Berlinale, director Jose Padilha said he wanted his film to move away from a strict action narrative and instead portray the interactions between the hostages and their kidnappers. He added that past filmic renditions of the hijacking showed "a gigantic military feat and ignored the interaction between the hostages and their hijackers and the political aspects in Israel." Padilha therefore sought out witnesses and asked for their impressions as they were invited on set during filming. One such witnesses was Jacques Lemoine, the flight engineer on the hijacked plane. At the Berlinale premiere, Lemoine spoke about how the terrifying kidnapping experience has always remained close to him. "That has stuck deep within us. When you lose seven kilograms of weight in seven days, that's physical evidence of just how traumatic this was for us," Lemoine told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2m3wN Lemoine's memories also helped Daniel Brühl better prepare for the role of the hijacker Böse. The German actor played the bookseller turned founder of the left-wing organization, "Revolutionary Cells," a man who fancies himself an anti-fascist urban guerrilla. Lemoine is convinced that it was Böse who made the decision not to kill all of the hostages on board as the Israeli military stormed the plane. For Brühl, it was an important insight to help understand the character he was playing. "Beneath every terrorist a person is hidden – no matter how brutal he is. And we wanted to show that in this film," he told DW. Read more: The legacy of the 1977 German Autumn of left-wing terror The film shifts narrative perspectives throughout, showing the situation through the eyes of the Israeli government, the terrorists, the confused hostages and the Israeli soldiers in a training camp. Actress Rosamund Pike believes that these shifts in perspective will cause audiences to respond differently to the film. Director Padilha is known for his work on the Netflix series "Narcos" The continued relevance of "7 Days in Entebbe" "Even though this took place in 1976, it has quite a bit to do with the here and now," Padilha told DW. He believes his film helps to understand the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine. By showing the conflict between Israel's then Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who wanted to speak with the kidnappers, and the more hawkish defense minister Shimon Peres, who refused to negotiate, the director presents an insight into why there is still no Middle East peace. Both Peres and Rabin increasingly voted throughout their careers for a peaceful solution between Israel and Palestine, said Padilha. "But during 'Operation Entebbe,' Commander Yonathan Netanyahu was killed and was celebrated as a hero in Israel," the director added. "His brother Benjamin returned from the US, became a politician and later Prime Minister of Israel. He is totally against negotiating with Palestine. The seven days of this hijacking are the root source of this position," said Padilha. The film was presented outside of competition at the Berlinale, which didn't bother its director, who won a Golden Bear in 2008 for "Tropa de Elite," about brutal drug mafia infighting in Rio de Janeiro. Padilha has also made a name for himself with his Netflix original series "Narcos," about Pablo Escobar and Colombian drug cartels. Whether it was the murder of business executive and industry representative Hanns-Martin Schleyer, the early RAF court trials or the hijacking of a Lufthansa airplane, the far-left militant group Red Army Faction (RAF) brought a wave of terror onto West Germany in the 1970s. Their actions have since inspired a number of filmmakers. In "The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum," a young woman played by Angela Winkler has an affair with an alleged terrorist, drawing the attention of the police, the judiciary system and the press. The 1975 film by Volker Schlöndorrf, based on a book by Heinrich Böll, is a fictional story based on the left-wing terrorism that took place in Germany in the 1960s and 1970s. "'Germany in Autumn' is not a 'good' film, but an important one," wrote Die Zeit. The 1978 film, comprised of 11 episodes, brought together top German directors including Rainer Werner Fassbinder and Volker Schlöndorff. Reflecting the socio-political climate of West Germany in the 1970s, this film was also based on a work by Nobel Prize-winning author Heinrich Böll. "Knife in the Head," starring Bruno Ganz as Dr. Hoffmann, was a 1978 blockbuster in West Germany. During a police raid, he is shot in the head but survives. But is he a victim of police brutality or terrorism? No one seems to know - not even Hoffmann, who loses his memory in the shooting. Margarethe von Trotta's 1981 film "Marianne and Juliane" is a fictionalized account based on the biographies of two real-life sisters and pastor's daughters, Christiane and Gudrun Ensslin. Both are active in politics. While one is a quiet pragmatist, the other joins the RAF and is later found dead in her prison cell. The film helped von Trotta make her international breakthrough. About 10 years after the Stammheim trial of RAF co-founders Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof, filmmaker Reinhard Hauff devoted a new film to the subject of RAF terrorism. Based on authentic protocols, "Stammheim" (1986) reconstructs the 192-day trial in 1975. The narrative is limited to the protocol reproduction and does not include any commentary. "The State I Am In" is a 2000 film by Christian Petzold about life after being part of the RAF. A couple who defied the German state in the 1970s lives underground with their daughter for years out of fear of being caught. While the parents are plagued by paranoia, the daughter decides to break out of hiding. Another story of life in hiding, this time in the former East Germany, is Volker Schlöndorff's "The Legend of Rita." In the film from 2000, left-wing terrorists go underground in East Germany in the 1970s with the help of the Stasi. After German reunification, their cover is blown and they are shot and killed while trying to escape. Several RAF members really did attempt to hide in East Germany. The documentary film released in 2001 by director Andres Veiel, "Black Box BRD" offers a counter-narrative in which surprising parallels open up. On the one side there is Alfred Herrhausen, spokesperson for Deutsche Bank's board of directors, who was murdered by the RAF. On the other side is RAF member Wolfgang Grams, whose violent death also raises questions. Perhaps the best-known film about the RAF, "The Baader-Meinhof Complex" (2008) provides the terrorist group's back story and their actions based on a book of the same name written by Stefan Aust. The film received mixed reviews, with some critics claiming it mystified the RAF - in part due to a star cast including Moritz Bleibtreu as Andreas Baader and Martina Gedeck as Ulrike Meinhof. In "Die Anwälte - Eine deutsche Geschichte" (The Lawyers - A German Story) from 2009, the careers of Otto Schily, Hans-Christian Ströbele and Horst Mahler are traced from their days as attorneys for the left-wing political opposition in the 1970s to the present. Schily (right) became interior minister; Ströbele (left) joined the Greens party; Mahler is a right-wing extremist and Holocaust denier. Andres Veiel made his feature film debut in 2011, in "If Not Us, Who?" The story of an emotional and sexual love triangle follows RAF co-founder Gudrun Ensslin and Bernward Vesper, son of a Nazi poet, as they fall in love, get married and have a child. But then Ensslin leaves the family and follows Andreas Baader into the RAF underground. Author: Anna Seibt (kbm, ct)