As a result of climate change, extreme weather is on the rise. Mega-storms, heavy rainfall, flooding, cold snaps, heat waves and drought are all impacting ever more of us around the world. We want to know how your life has changed as a result of living through extreme weather. Extreme weather events can leave behind deep scars. They can also cause a real shift in behavior, as communities seek to adapt to changing conditions and mitigate the factors causing extreme weather. We'd like to know how these issues have affected you. If you have experienced extreme weather, tell us how it has changed your life, or that of your community. Please send an email to extremweatherstories[at]dw.com (replace with @ in the email address) including text, photos, video or even audio describing your experience. You can also post on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram using the hashtag #ExtremeWeatherStories. We'll share the most powerful stories we've received from our audience over our website and social media channels from April 9-13. We look forward to hearing from you! A scorching heat wave nicknamed "Lucifer" has swept through southern Europe, wreaking havoc as temperatures soared above 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), from Spain in the west to the Balkan states in the east. Crops have wilted, water sources evaporated and wildfires have been raging. Mallorca's record temperatures sent tourists scurrying for shade. Here, they've find a touch of relief under Palma Cathedral. Hospital admissions have spiked in several countries, with heat-related deaths recorded in Italy, Spain and Romania. ... and things haven't improved much after sundown. Here, a Palma street thermometer registers 33 degrees Celsius late in the evening, offering no escape from the heat. Scientists say 2017 looks set to continue the recent trend and count among the hottest years on record. Tourist-packed Rome is among the capital cities worst hit by the heat wave. The Vatican was forced to turn off drinking fountains in July. Luckily, welcome relief was provided as temperatures climbed into the 40s in downtown Rome last week. As Madrid warmed to an uncomfortable 39 degrees Celsius in June, it wasn't just the city's human inhabitants who felt the heat. Here, a rhino at the city's zoo does it's best to keep cool. Kids, at least, were making the most of efforts to keep cool in Nice, southern France. Across Europe, public fountains have drawn crowds. Meanwhile, roads leading out of cities toward the coast - as well as some airports - have become jammed as city-dwellers try to escape the urban swelter. Not just heat - July 2017 was Germany's wettest since records began in 1881, with heavy rain drowning out plans for barbecues and sunbathing, and lightning electrifying the skies. While it is becoming more possible to connect individual weather events such as heat waves or storms to climate change, scientists say global warming has contributed to the rise of extreme weather around the world. While other European cities craved water, revelers at Berlin's annual Christopher Street Day parades braved lashing rain to celebrate Gay Pride. Berlin, like much of Germany, has had an unusually wet summer, complete with giant hailstones and dramatic thunderstorms. Northern Germany in particular has seen gale-force winds this summer that left streets littered with debris. Storms even brought down entire trees, like this impressive old chestnut in Hamburg, which was hit by a tornado in June. Traffic, trains and flights have been disrupted and at least two people killed. Austria, too, has been hit by the deluge. Tourist hoping for a relaxing break in Salzburg were pummeled by rain and hail in August, with the popular Grossarltal Valley completely cut off by floods. At least three people were killed. In southern Europe, forest fires are among the greatest dangers of high summer temperatures. Here, tourists soaking up rays on the Côte d'Azur watch the hills burning above them. Authorities were forced to evacuate 10,000 people from the area. Fires have also swept through areas of Croatia, Italy, Portugal and Spain, causing damage to homes, farms and forests. By late July, Europe had seen more than three times the annual average number of fires. Severe fires in Portugal in June killed 64 people. Author: Ruby Russell