The chief executive of England's Football Association was criticized on Monday for equating the Nazi swastika with the Jewish Star of David symbol. Martin Glenn was responding to a controversy over Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola violating a ban on political symbols by wearing yellow ribbon in support of Catalan separatists. Read more: The Star of David and Germany's national interest ‘Highly divisive' Glenn was defending the FA's position of allowing remembrance poppies while banning other political symbols, saying: Read more: FIFA to lift controversial poppy ban Guardiola has been charged with promoting a political message by wearing a pro-separatist Catalan ribbon Jewish response Simon Johnson, the chief executive of the Jewish Leadership Council and former director of corporate affairs at the FA criticized Glenn's wording, saying on Twitter: "The Star of David is a Jewish religious symbol of immense importance to Jews worldwide. To put it in the same bracket as the swastika and Robert Mugabe is offensive and inappropriate." Israeli visit: Glenn's problematic comments came after Prince William, who is also FA president, announced plans to visit Israel later this year. Israeli players feature the Star of David on their kits and in stadiums as it appears on the Israeli flag. Catalonia controversy: Guardiola is a Catalan sporting icon, who transformed Barcelona's soccer team into a dominating force over fours years as manager. Now manager of Manchester City, he has worn the yellow ribbon for months, but was only recently charged by the FA. He has been criticized for campaigning for Catalonia's right to self-determination while ignoring the considerable human rights violations carried out by the United Arab Emirates, whose deputy prime minister bankrolls Manchester City. After making it into Barcelona's famous football school "La Masia" aged just 13, Guardiola eventually became an integral part of the first team. Between 1990 and 2001, he won six league titles, two Spanish cups and a Champions League title at Barca. In 1992, Guardiola (right) also won a gold medal at the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona. His partner in crime back then was Luis Enrique (left), Barcelona's current head coach. They've maintained a close relationship ever since, adding even more anticipation to their Champions League match-up. In 2001, Guardiola left Barcelona as the club's then-coach Louis van Gaal turned his eye to younger players. After stops in Italy, Qatar and Mexico, Guardiola returned to coach Barcelona's youth team in 2007. One year later he was named first-team head coach. At 37-years-old he was the third youngest head coach ever at Barcelona. Straight from the start, Guardiola planned a future without stars like Samuel Eto'o, Deco and Ronaldinho. Even Superstar Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who joined the club in a swap for Eto'o in 2009, did not stay long. Pep opted for team-oriented players who understood his idea of possession football and could deliver his famous tiki-taka style of play. Guardiola's style brought success - in a big way. The Catalonian club collected 14 titles in four years as the club became the blueprint on modern footballing success. In Pep's first year in charge, Barcelona won it all: La Liga, the Copa del Rey and the Champions League. Guardiola became a hero throughout Catalonian for taking Barca back to the top and putting an end to the dominance of the "Galaticos" of rivals Real Madrid. Pep became pretty much synonymous with the club and the whole region. Guardiola's most prominent protégé was Lionel Messi (left). Pep put his faith in the diminutive Argentinean, and he responded by become one of the most lethal goal-scoring threats in ths game. Other players who rose to prominence under Pep were midfielders Iniesta and Xavi, defenders Puyol and Pique, and keeper Valdes. One of Guardiola's favourite later pupils was Thiago (right). In 2011, when Guardiola won his second Champions League the midfield magician was in the squad. Pep also brought Thiago to Munich. When asked whom he wanted as a transfer, he allegedly said: "Thiago or no one." After four years on the Barca bench, Guardiola stepped down. The constant stress had taken its toll, and the head coach needed a break. His last season at Barca showed it, as the club lost the league title to Real Madrid and was knocked out of the Champions League by Chelsea in the semifinals. A Spanish Cup was Guardiola's final trophy. Guardiola's long-time assistant Tito Vilanova took over when Pep left. Vilanova was then diagnosed with cancer and treated in New York, but Guardiola didn't visit him, despite living in the city during his sabbatical. Vilanova died before the two could reconcile, and at the wish of Vilanova's widow, Guardiola was not invited to the funeral. Wherever Guardiola is employed, part of his heart will always be at FC Barcelona. In March, he and his father watched the club's Champions League game against Manchester City. During the match he was as emotional as any supporter. No surprise considering that he's a season-ticket holder. Now Guardiola returns to "his" team and "his" stadium as as Bayern head coach. For Pep, Barca is certainly more than a club, and no opponent could be more special. Nevertheless, Guardiola was keepiung things low-key, saying "It's just a game." No one is buying that. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons aw/rt (AP, AFP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.