Hamburg 1-2 Hertha Berlin, Volksparkstadion (Santos 26' — Lazaro 55', Kalou 62') Relegation looms for Hamburg who were made to pay for not making the most of a promising first half. Julian Pollersbeck kept out a fierce shot from Vladimir Darida with a smart reflex save, and after one or two missed chances, the home side soon put together a flowing move that, to the delight of the HSV fans, Brazilian left back Douglas Santos coolly finished off. Pollersbeck made another save just before the break to keep the home side ahead, but two goals in seven second-half minutes ended Hamburg's joy. Valentino Lazaro poked home from a perfectly-placed cross before poor marking saw substitute Salomon Kalou convert from close range. Hamburg tried to find an equalizer, but not for the first time this season were left empty handed. HSV have now gone 14 games without a league win, which is a new unwanted club record. Breel Embolo's impact as a substitute ended up making the difference for Schalke. Wolfsburg 0-1 Schalke, Volkswagen Arena (Knoche o.g. 87') Schalke's ability to win close games continued as they stole three points in Wolfsburg. Both sides missed one good chance each to take the lead in the first half, but the game came to life in the final 20 minutes. Paul Verhaegh had a penalty saved by Ralf Fährmann right when Wolfsburg looked like good value for a goal. Things went from bad to worse for the home side when Robin Knoche converted Breel Embolo's cross into his own net. Landry Dimata might have equalized in injury time, but it was a day to forget for Wolfsburg. With the win, Schalke move four points clear of Dortmund and prevent Bayern Munich from celebrating the title on Matchday 27. Hübner's header was his third of the Bundesliga season. Gladbach 3-3 Hoffenheim, Borussia Park (Drmic 33', Stindl 72', Ginter 90' — Hübner 12', Kramaric pen. 57', Grillitsch 73') Hoffenheim will be the more frustrated of the teams after a six-goal thriller in Mönchengladbach. Benjamin Hübner's header from a corner gave the visitors the lead and after Oliver Baumann denied Patrick Herrmann, substitute Josip Drmic latched on to a perfect through ball from Mickael Cuisance to equalize. The goal was checked by VAR and although Drmic's arm was involved in controlling the ball, there was no intention from the striker and so referee Martin Petersen awarded the goal. A sloppy foul from Jonas Hofmann allowed Andrej Kramaric to restore Hoffenheim's lead from the spot but Gladbach pegged Hoffenheim back again when Lars Stindl scored his first goal in nearly 1,400 minutes. More sloppy play from Hofmann just moments after saw Florian Grillitsch finish smartly. Incredibly though, Matthias Ginter converted at the back post to share the spoils. Is Kevin-Prince Boateng the signing of the season? His impact at Frankfurt is beyond the numbers. Frankfurt 3-0 Mainz, Commerzbank-Arena (Boateng 7', Jovic 22', Rebic 42') Mainz remain in deep relegation trouble after a first-half to forget against a soaring Frankfurt team. The hosts took the lead when Kevin-Prince Boateng's volley crept in at the near post past third-choice keeper Florian Müller, who should have done better. Luka Jovic slid in a second after neat team play and then a low strike by Ante Rebic from the edge of the box crept in at the near post to leave Mainz down and out at halftime. Frankfurt might have added more in the second half, but Mainz's defeat could leave them stranded in the relegation playoff spot. Ishak Belfodil hasn't had it easy since joining Werder Bremen but two goals against Augsburg will have done his confidence wonders. Augsburg 1-3 Werder Bremen, WWK Arena (Khedira 63' — Belfodil 4', 40', Kruse 82') Werder Bremen's good form continued as they saw off an Augsburg team slowing down towards the end of the season. Early on, Ishak Belfodil cut in from the wing to drill a low shot into the far corner. Just as Augsburg were getting back into the game, poor marking from a throw-in was punished by the visitors as Belfodil snuck in to score his second. In the second half, Rani Khedira headed home a fantastic cross from Philipp Max and then Jiri Pavlenka pushed Michael Gregoritsch's powerful free kick onto the post as Augsburg threatened. But Max Kruse curled in a late third and Bremen have now taken 13 points in their last six games and look to have put any fears of relegation well and truly behind them. Still to come on Matchday 27: Borussia Dortmund vs. Hannover (Sunday, 13:30) Cologne vs. Bayer Leverkusen (Sunday, 15:30) RB Leipzig vs. Bayern Munich (Sunday, 18:00)