Italy's parliament reconvened for the first time since inconclusive elections in March, with lawmakers casting votes to determine presidents of both parliamentary chambers. However, the first round of voting for both chambers were inconclusive after an apparent deal between two populist parties fell through. The eurosceptic 5 Star Movement (M5S), which gained the most votes in the general election, had apparently agreed to split the presidents of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies with the far-right Northern League. Read more: Italy's 5 Star Movement feeds on voters' anger Berlusconi undermines populists But M5S party leader Luigi Di Maio said the deal fell through after former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi fronted an ex-economy minister who had been convicted of embezzlement. The former premier, who was convicted for tax fraud, reportedly demanded to meet with Di Maio. Read more: Luigi Di Maio: The populist leader eyeing Rome "Everything seemed like it was moving in the right direction, then at a certain point, there was this story about Berlusconi insisting on meeting me," said Di Maio. Matteo Salvini, who leads the Northern League, "had been selected to speak for the center right, and that's who we talked to." Born in Milan in 1936, Berlusconi started out his career as a singer on cruise ships in the 1950s before rising to become a major player in Italy's media landscape. He created the first (and only) Italian TV commerical empire, and created media groups with huge portfolios like Fininvest. He also owned the highly successful soccer team AC Milan from 1986 to 2016. Before founding his center-right Forza Italia ("Let's go Italy") party in 1993, Berlusconi enjoyed the friendship of Prime Minister Benito Craxi. After Craxi was forced out of politics by a corruption scandal, Berlusconi presented himself as a brash but honest, self-made man, a moderate and supporter of the free market. Forza Italia remains largely a party ideologically aligned around its leader. Berlusconi would come to dominate Italian politics for the next two and a half decades. First elected to the lower house of parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, in 1994, Berlusconi had three stints as prime minister between that year and 2011. He was repeatedly accused of corruption and authoritarianism during his tenure. Berlusconi formed strong friendships with world leaders of a similar ilk, including Russian President Vladimir Putin. He had highly antagonistic relationships with leaders who criticized him, such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He once caused a stir in the European Parliament in 2008 by telling then-EU lawmaker Martin Schulz he could play a Nazi in one of his upcoming films. After being hit with claims of paying bribes, abuse of office, tax fraud and defamation, in 2011 Berlusconi was forced to resign. He was accused of organizing hedonistic celebrations that involved sex with minors, called "bunga bunga" parties. At the center of the scandal was exotic dancer Karima El Mahroug. Berlusconi was first found guilty, but his conviction was overtuned on appeal in 2014. After avoiding major legal repercussions for years, Berlusconi was finally convicted of tax fraud in 2013 and banned from holding public office until 2019. Because he was over the age of 70 at the time of his conviction, he was sentenced to carry out community service in lieu of jail time. He works about four hours a week at an elderly care facility helping dementia patients. Although he cannot hold office, Berlusconi has been amassing a right-wing bloc that is currently leading the polls ahead of Italy's general election on March 4. Forza Italia has been bolstered by the support of the far-right Lega Nord (Northern League) and its leader Matteo Salvini (right). The Lega promotes euroskeptic and anti-immigrant policies. Berlusconi welcomes comparisons to US President Donald Trump in terms of populism, lifestyle, attitude and backgrounds. Shortly after Trump's victory, Berlusconi commended his focus on the "weak citizens harassed by the state, taxes, bureaucracy, uncontrolled immigration, unemployment and the danger of terrorism." Despite this, Berlusconi is keen to point out that he made his money on his own. Despite endless legal troubles and little legislative or economic sucess, Berlusconi has vowed not to step away from politics. He has vowed to remain the custodial leader of Forza Italia during his public office ban, and to contest another election as soon as he is able. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Tough talks ahead In the Italian general election earlier this month, M5S managed to lead the vote with 32 percent. A right-of-center alliance including the Northern League, Berlusconi's Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy garnered 37 percent of the vote, shy of the 40 percent needed to govern. However, the Northern League beat out Forza Italia with 18 percent of the vote, making its leader the leading voice of the alliance, a first since the two parties had decided to join forces in 1994. Read more: Matteo Salvini: Italy's far-right success story While the two populist could try to form a government without Forza Italia, analysts believe it is unlikely, given Berlusconi's role in bolstering support for the right-of-center alliance. "The lack of visibility on the future government is likely to persist for weeks and the outcome of the consultations that will start later this month remains highly uncertain," said Wolfango Piccoli, co-president of the New York-based Teneo Intelligence. Hours before parliament reconvened, a street artist put up a mural of Northern Leader leader Matteo Salvini kissing M5S chief Luigi Di Maio near the parliamentary building If all else fails The election of the presidents of the parliamentary chambers must be completed before Italian President Sergio Mattarella can begin consulting with parties to form a government. Read more: Opinion: Italy' selection results highlight a European trend In the event that no political leader emerges to form a government, Mattarella can handpick one for a limited mandate. That option could lead to early elections. "As things stand, we see new elections as the most plausible outcome," said political analyst Federico Santi of the New York-based Eurasia Group. Last Easter, in an attempt to soften his image as he eyed a return to poltics, Berlusconi took part in an ad promoting vegetarianism that featured him snuggling lambs in soft lighting overlaid with easy listening music. Although Berlusconi is barred from seeking office for another year due to a fraud convinction, a bloc led by his Forza Italia party has been polling strongly. Berlusconi is well known for offensive remarks and belittling women, so it's no surprise he did both in one go on the campaign trail. Earlier in February, he told a BBC journalist that her handshake was too manly; "Otherwise men will think, this one is going to beat me up, and no one will marry you." Matteo Salvini of the far-right Northern League came up with a humble publicity stunt – whoever likes his Facebook posts can win a chance to take a picture with "the captain", talk to him on the phone, or meet in private. He was lambasted on social media and by Italy's La Repubblica daily, which wrote: "The captain? Even Silvio Berlusconi in his golden age would envy this kind of self-regard." If ex-PM Matteo Renzi was hoping to make a big splash with this tepid ad in which – suprise! – he shows up on a bike and tells a family to "think about" voting for him, then he was certainly successful. Just not perhaps in the way he wanted. The staggeringly lackluster TV spot had been parodied countless times on social media. Luigi di Maio of Italy's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (M5S) has repeatedly used his age of only 31 to try and connect with younger voters and is prolific on social media. One of his most cringe-worthy attempts to relate to millennial voters came in a video he posted to Instagram in which he said M5S would make Italy "fly high," before "flying" himself in an entertainment complex. After the US election, the Pope warned about the spread of fake news in Italy and its undue influence. He called untrue, sensational stories "the greatest damage the media can do," in an interview with the Catholic weekly Tertio. "I think the media...must not fall into – no offense intended – the sickness of coprophilia," he said, using a more polite term for an abnormal interest in faeces. Comedian and pundit John Oliver brought the tumultous Italian election to the attention of a wider audience in one of his famous TV segments, skewering Berlusconi. Oliver's solution to Italy's unwieldy democracy? Encouraging Italian lawmakers to appoint him: "Incredibly, I am far from your worst option," he joked while cuddling a lamb. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher ls/kl (Reuters, AP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.