Republican Rick Saccone refused to admit defeat in the high-stakes Congress race on Tuesday after his opponent from the US Democratic Party Conor Lamb (pictured above) claimed victory. According to the latest results, Lamb was leading by several hundred votes after ballots from all precincts in the 18th Pennsylvania district were counted, and the election officials were now going through absentee ballots to determine the winner of the race in the southern suburbs of Pittsburgh. However, former federal prosecutor and marine veteran Lamb already declared himself the winner. "It took a little longer than we thought but we did it. You did it," Lamb told the crowd of his supporters shortly before midnight local time. The 33-year-old said the voters told him to "do your job" in Washington. "Mission accepted," he said. Read more: Republicans take (almost) all in 2014 midterm elections Republican Rick Saccone did not immediately admit defeat The special congressional race carries high stakes for both US parties. The Pennsylvania district had been considered a Republican stronghold, and an upturn there would not bode well for the Republican party ahead of Senate and House mid-term elections in November. "We're still fighting the fight. It's not over yet. We're going to fight all the way to the end. You know I never give up," the 60-year-old Saccone said before Lamb claimed victory. With the outcome coming down to a fraction of a percentage point, either candidate can request a recount. Read more: US Green Party to pursue Pennsylvania recount in federal court US President Donald Trump won the presidential race in the district by 20 points in 2016. The White House has strongly backed Saccone, who once described himself as Trump's wingman. Both candidates publically supported Trump's incoming tariffs to steel and aluminum, as Pittsburgh is traditionally considered the home of US steelmakers. The special election was triggered when Republican congresman Tim Murphy resigned in October. dj/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters)