The Kremlin controls every aspect of the political process in Russia and it didn't leave anything to chance during this electoral spectacle. That makes it very difficult to judge the more than 70 percent of votes in favor of Vladimir Putin. Many Russians undoubtedly voted for him; He is clearly popular with the public. But he is popular because the Kremlin has for years blocked other politicians from developing their own public profiles in the centrally controlled media. That applies not only to prominent opposition figures such as Alexei Navalny. It also applies to opposition politicians who remain committed to the Russian political system and political allies, such as Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, who have stayed loyal to Putin. The president's power rests not only on state repression, but also to the media's portrayal of him as Russia's only conceivable leader. Read more: Khodorkovsky: Nobody knows where Putin will drag Russia Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uYlV No political competition in Russia The results of elections like today's pseudo vote will remain meaningless so long as there is no real political competition. Competition has so far been simulated and imitated. Other candidates were allowed to take part in this ballot, but they had no chance of winning. They were token candidates and have fulfilled their task. The Kremlin was aware of this weakness and wanted the result to be more than a mere formal confirmation of Putin's presidency. A vote share of 70 percent or more for Putin combined with high voter turnout — preferably around 70 percent — would dispel doubts about his legitimacy. But only naïve voters are really impressed by such numbers. Political strategists in the Kremlin know this best — it is there that the many tricks, manipulations and forgeries were devised to ensure the desired result. Read more: Vladimir Putin: How a spy rose to power and held on to it Born in St.Petersburg in 1952, Putin's signed up with the Soviet intelligence agency the KGB right out of law school in 1975. His first assignment was to monitor foreign nationals and consulate employees in his home city, then called Leningrad. He was then assigned to Dresden, East Germany. He reportedly burned hundreds of KGB files after the fall of the Berlin Wall. On the left, a young Putin can be seen standing next to then-St.Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak. Sobchak had been a professor of Putin's, who appointed him to be an advisor on international affairs. Despite a corruption scandal early in his tenure, Putin's friendship with Sobchak kept him from losing his job. Putin quickly leapt from St.Petersburg to Moscow. In 1997, President Boris Yeltsin gave Putin a mid-level position on his staff — a position Putin would use to cultivate important political friendships that would serve him in the decades to come. Putin was deeply affected by Anatoly Sobchak's death in 2000. After the apprentice outstripped his teacher politically, Sobchak became a vocal early proponent of Putin's bid for the presidency. A year earlier, Putin used his political connections to have fraud allegations against Sobchak dropped, the beginning of a pattern for friends of the former spy. In June 2000, Boris Yeltsin stepped down, leaving his prime minister to become interim leader. As he was running for his sucessful presidential campaign, Putin's corruption allegations from his time on the city government in St.Petersburg resurfaced. Marina Salye, the lawmaker who brought up the claims, was silence and forced to leave the city. When Putin was constitutionally barred from running for a third consecutive term in 2008, his Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev ran in his stead. When Medvedev was elected, his appointed Putin as premier. This led to criticism of a "tandemocracy," in Moscow, with many people believing that Medvedev was Putin's puppet. In March 2018, Vladimir Putin was elected to his fourth term as president. Because the presidential term has been extended, this means Putin will be in power for the next six years. However, the election was marred by a lack of opposition to the incumbent, as well as allegations of vote tampering and ballot-stuffing. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Putin's dangerous course Where will Putin lead Russia in the next few years? Many in the West fear Russia's unpredictable and aggressive stance on the international stage, as NATO General Secretary Jens Stoltenberg most recently put it. The poisoning of the former Russian agent Sergei Skripal in the UK with a military-grade nerve agent made it clear that Putin is prepared to further escalate confrontation with the West. Ingo Mannteufel leads DW's Russian department The Kremlin also wants to distract the Russian public from the country's own plight with an expansionist and aggressive foreign policy. The last six years were in every aspect lost years — economic growth only increased slightly. Russia has fallen behind economically and technologically, particularly compared to China, but also compared to the US, Japan and the EU. Russians sense their incomes are falling. But the Kremlin-controlled propaganda machine drowned out the homemade causes for the economic and social stagnation with anti-Western rhetoric and messages of bogus military strength. Read more: Is it time for Germany to revisit its Russia relationship? Putin will not change his course during his next term. Real reforms to the Russian economy and state would inevitably undermine the foundations of his power. For that reason, only imitations of reform, if any at all, can be expected. He is much more likely to pursue his present policies, as he announced in his last state of the nation address, and speak about armaments programs and new types of weapons. The era of illusions and delusions about Putin's Russia is long gone. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.