The Spanish Supreme Court on Friday ordered 25 Catalan leaders be tried for rebellion, embezzlement and disobeying the state — charges which could earn the secessionist politicians up to 25 years in prison if convicted. Judge Pablo Llarena backed his ruling by stating that secessionists had been planning ways to split with Spain for the past six years. He described the case as "an attack on the constitutional state ... of unusual gravity and persistence." Of the 25 people charged, 13 will face charges of rebellion. Read more: Catalonia fails to vote in new president as third pro-independence candidate loses secessionist support Tough run: Jordi Turull lost his Catalan presidency bid and was jailed soon after Five jailed Llarena also ordered that five of the politicians be placed in preventive detention without bail. Among them was Jordi Turull, who on Thursday failed in his bid to become Catalonia's regional president. While he could be elected by a simple majority vote on Saturday, it was unclear whether the vote could go ahead with Turull in prison. The other politicians who entered preventive detention included ex-parliamentary speaker Carme Forcadell and three former members of the regional government. Llarena's prison orders bring the total number of jailed separatist Catalan leaders to nine. Catalan ex-Vice President Oriol Junqueras, the region's former Interior Minister Joaquim Forn, and two prominent leaders of pro-independence civil organizations, Jordi Sanchez and Jordi Cuixart, were imprisoned in the aftermath of last October's contested independence referendum. Read more: Protesters mock Catalan independence bid with secession call of their own Protests Although Friday's ruling dealt an immediate blow to the secessionist movement's leadership, the fresh round of detentions could further fire up the movement's supporters, who have referred to the politicians as "political prisoners." Thousands of demonstrators took to the streets of Barcelonia, Vic and Tarragona on Friday evening to protest against the court decision. Twenty-four people were injured in clashes with police in Barcelona after the ruling Police used batons to keep protesters away from government buildings in Barcelona. Emergency services said 24 people were lightly injured in clashes between police and demonstrators. Read more: Challenges ahead for Puigdemont and secessionist political unity Another one heads abroad Marta Rovira, the General Secretary of the left-wing, pro-independence Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC), also received a preventive prison order. However, she chose to flee the country to live "in exile," as she stated in a letter. Spanish media reported that she had headed to Switzerland. By fleeing Spain, she joins various other Catalan politicians who have headed over the borders to avoid being taken into custody. Most prominent among them is Carles Puigdemont, Catalonia's ex-president, who has been living in Belgium since October. After his decision to leave Spain, Madrid issued an arrest warrant for Puigdemont but subsequently dropped it. However, on Friday, Llarena issued fresh orders for European and international arrest warrants for Catalan politicians abroad, including Puigdemont and Rovira. Puigdemont remained unshaken about the new warrant. "Let's see what happens tomorrow, what happens today. Every day things change," he said in Helsinki, where he was visiting. He also accused the judge of wading into political waters. "It is not right for a judge to do politics," Puigdemont said. The Catalan drive for independence came to a head at the end of 2017 after an independence referendum that Spain had declared unconstitutional took place. Since then, the central government in Madrid has sought to neutralize the secessionist drive by taking direct control of the region and calling for new elections in December. These delivered a parliamentary majority to separatist parties, but failed to earn a majority of popular support. Catalans remain divided on whether or not to split from Spain. Read more: Catalonia's Carles Puigdemont warns of 'repeat elections' as top court blocks successor cmb/aw (EFE, AP, Reuters) As the world watched, Catalonia's parliament voted 70 to 10 for the region to declare its independence from Spain. "Our legitimate parliament has taken a very important step. This is the people's mandate," Puigdemont said after the decision. Dozens of opposition lawmakers from the Socialist Party, Citizens Party and Popular Party had walked out of the parliament chamber to boycott the vote. Within an hour of the Catalan vote, the Spanish Senate in Madrid passed a bill to trigger Article 155 of the Spanish constitution. The measure will allow the central government to suspend Catalonia's autonomy. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he would sack Catalonia’s government and set new regional elections for December 21. European leaders were quick to condemn the independence declaration. EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said the Union "doesn't need any more cracks," while EU Council President Donald Tusk said Madrid "remains our only interlocutor." Leaders in Germany, France, Italy and the UK voiced their support for Madrid. The US also chimed in, saying "Catalonia is an integral part of Spain." Barcelona and Madrid had been in a standoff since 93 percent of voters opted for Catalan independence in an October 1 referendum marred by police violence. Spain said the poll was illegal and stressed the low voter turnout of 43 percent. It subsequently threatened to suspend the region's autonomy if Catalan leaders did not stop their drive for independence. Many had expected tensions to ease on October 26 when Catalan President Carles Puigdemont was expected to call snap elections to bow to a key Spanish government demand. But Puigdemont refused, saying that he did not have enough "guarantees" from Madrid. Instead, he called on the Catalan parliament to decide on how to respond to Spain's threat to suspend the region's autonomy. Tens of thousands of pro-independence protesters had taken to the streets of Barcelona ahead of the independence declaration to demand the region's secession and the release of two leaders of pro-independence organizations, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sanchez. Independence has divided Catalonia. Many who supported continued unity with Spain refused to vote in the October 1 referendum. The pro-independence crowds outside the Catalan parliament immediately rejoiced after hearing the independence declaration. Many people were draped in the "Estelada" flag associated with Catalan independence. Some reportedly called for the Spanish flag to be removed from the Catalan government palace as regional lawmakers arrived from the parliament. (Author: Alexander Pearson) Author: Alexander Pearson