The timing couldn't be better. On Saturday, a third goal in as many matches provided the greatest evidence yet that Marco Reus is beginning to return to full power. His nonchalant waltz past onrushing RB Lepzig goalkeeper Peter Gulasci, and the composed finish that followed it, demonstrated  the composure and eye for goal that few Bundesliga forwards can match. Circumstances haven't often fallen in Reus's favor. He's spent Germany's last three international tournaments, including their successful 2014 World Cup campaign, watching from his sofa, sidelined through injury. Recurring ankle and groin issues have limited the 28-year old to just 28 caps, a paltry figure for a player of his talent. Performances since returning from his latest setback, however, suggest Russia 2018 might finally provide the stage for one of Germany's brightest attackers to flourish. But he faces stiff competition. Leroy Sane's performances for Pep Guardiola's runaway Premier League leaders Manchester City have been nothing short of phenomenal as he's nailed down a spot in a multi-talented team. The former Schalke winger, 22, has eight goals and 11 assists this term and those figures should offer him an excellent chance of starting on the left wing when Germany line-up to face Mexico on June 17th. Equally Julian Draxler, who has occupied the role in the absence of Reus at previous tournaments, will feel his chances of cementing a place in the team have improved following news of Neymar's broken metatarsal. The PSG winger has had his opportunities limited since joining from Wolfsburg for €45m in the summer of 2016, following the arrivals of Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and Angel Di Maria. He'll hope that performances at the 2017 Confederations Cup, in which he captained a young Germany side to glory, will give him an edge over the competition. One thing Reus has over both of them is his status, when fit, as a guaranteed starter for his club. Dortmund are a different side when he's available. Indeed, Peter Bosz might still be in with a job had Reus not missed the entirety of his reign with the injury picked up in last May's German Cup final victory over Frankfurt. Reus celebrates scoring against former club Gladbach on February 18th He should also head into the summer fully focused, away from the glare of the transfer spotlight. Something which can't be said of Draxler. While undoubtedly a superstar, Reus' injury record makes him a high-stakes gamble for any of the clubs which could afford him. Löw will want his chosen starters to be fully-focused on the competition, and not on the big money moves that await once the tournament is over. But there's more to it than speculation. Reus' emphatic return immediately following a lengthy spell on the sidelines has shown that this is a player desperate to make up for lost time. What's more, none of his pace, composure or dribbling ability appear to have deserted him. He's managed 45 goals in his last 88 Bundesliga starts; a record made even more impressive given his injury record. It's also evidence of an eye for goal superior to that of his rivals. With Draxler struggling for game time and Sane remaining a raw, if precocious, talent, Jogi Löw should look no further than a player who appears to want nothing more than a chance to simply play football. Performances between now and the end of the season will be key as Löw considers his plans for the summer. If Reus can remain fit, and help fire Dortmund to a second place finish above local rivals Schalke, he should be handed the opportunity to show the world what it's been missing. Cologne goalkeeper Timo Horn cuts a desperate figure after shipping another three goals against Stuttgart. The club have now conceded 46 goals this season, more than any other. They've also scored the second fewest and remain eight points from safety. Marco Reus pumped his fist in the air after scoring the equalizing goal in the first half of Dortmund's 1-1 draw with Leipzig. The German forward, who returned from a 9-month injury layoff at the beginning of February, has scored in each of Dortmund's last three league games. Filip Kostic (pictured) had a chance to end Hamburg's downward spiral when he attempted to give his side the lead against Mainz from the penalty spot. The Serbian winger was left scratching his head after his spot kick was saved by 20-year-old Mainz goalkeeper Florian Müller, who was making his professional debut. Danny Da Costa (right) had his eyes on the prize when he attacked a corner from Jonathan de Guzman to score Frankfurt's only goal in their 1-0 win over Hannover. The goal was his first of the season, giving him a bigger case to get more playing time in Frankfurt's midfield. Schalke goalkeeper Ralf Fährmann went horizontal as he tipped away a shot attempt from Hertha's Davie Selke. The Royal Blues wound up keeping their second straight clean sheet in a 1-0 win over the Berliners. Andrej Kramaric (front) got a much deserved cuddle from teammate Florian Grillitsch (back) after scoring Hoffenheim's first goal in their 2-0 win over Augsburg. The goal was Kramaric's sixth in his last five games. Lucas Alario (left) scored from the spot and set one up from open play as Leverkusen bested Wolfsburg 2-1. Alario has netted six since joining Leverkusen's well-stocked strike force. Youngster Julian Brandt scored another off the bench on Saturday, after Karim Bellarabi made way. Borussia Mönchengladbach's early two-goal lead always looked fragile in Friday's game. Werder Bremen refused to let the game go. But it was from a second-half corner that the visitors found a way back into the match. Tom Delaney lost his man, Reece Oxford, in the penalty area melee, and not a single Foal was awake to the danger posed by a free man on the penalty spot. 