Arctic ice researcher Julienne Stroeve "thinks overtime" about how much sea ice she melts each time she flies between her duties at University College London in the UK, and her home state of Colorado in the US. Stroeve knows better than most how heat-trapping greenhouse gases are irrevocably changing the Arctic. In the summer of 2012, she was part of an Arctic research expedition which witnessed up close sea ice dropping to the lowest extent ever measured — a record that still stands five years later. Her concerns have only grown as she studies the ice decline and how it will affect plankton, the base of the ocean food chain, as well as climate extremes, such as rain-on-snow events that make it harder for reindeer to survive the winter. Julienne Stroeve at work in the Arctic. The scientist "thinks overtime" about the effect her own actions have on rising sea levels. "I fly a lot to meetings around the world, and while there are more web meetings being held, sometimes meeting face-to-face is still best," she said. "I would love to see an option with airlines that we would increase our ticket price to offset our carbon footprint." Stroeve says she does her part by commuting on public transport but adds that flying is one of the worst environmental transgressions and the best long-term solution would be to develop a renewable energy source for air travel. Eating a vegetarian diet has, Stroeve says, helped further reduce her carbon footprint. She believes conference organizers should switch to serving vegetarian food, too. "It's not a big deal not to eat meat for a day or a week of meetings, and that can dramatically reduce our carbon footprints," she said. Read more: Feeding the world in 2050 – can we do better than today? To signal their commitment to climate action, research institutions and universities should switch to renewable energy, said Stroeve. Her own primary research base, the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado, has already become a green data center. The NSIDC provides a steady stream of climate data to researchers around the world. Cooling the center's computer room alone requires 300,000 kilowatt-hours of energy per year. That's enough to power 34 homes. A recent redesign cut energy use by 90 percent, and the center also installed rooftop solar panels. The Finnish icebreaker MSV Nordica is docked before setting sail for the Bering Strait in British Columbia, Canada. The giant vessel is about to take a team of international researchers through the Northwest Passage to record the environmental and social changes transforming this remarkable, forbidding corner of the planet. Shards of broken sea ice shine brightly under the Arctic sun as the ship sails through the Franklin Strait on the Northwest Passage. Sea ice forms when the top layer of water reaches freezing point, usually in October. Should the ice survive the following year’s summer melt and beyond, it becomes the toughest kind. A cargo ship is framed distantly on the horizon from the deck of the MSV Nordica in the North Pacific Ocean. It’s one of the first sightings of marine traffic the Finnish icebreaker has encountered since it left Vancouver to traverse what is one of the most isolated maritime routes in the world. The MSV Nordica sails past ice floating on the Chukchi Sea off the coast of Alaska as it continues its journey through the Arctic's Northwest Passage. The record-breaking trip remains a challenge for conventional ships but scientists predict the route will be ice free by 2050, if current levels of warming continue. Waves crash against the hull of the MSV Nordica as it heads towards the Bering Sea under a gray sky. For most of its 24-day journey through the Northwest Passage, the only companions the ship and her crew had were Arctic sea birds, seals and the odd whale. Late on in the journey, a crew member sighted a polar bear. Boatswain Henri Helminen secures a rope as the MSV Nordica docks in Nuuk, Greenland, having traversed the Northwest Passage through the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. The 10,000 kilometer (6,214 miles) journey is the earliest transit of the Passage, breaking the record set by a Canadian Coast Guard ship in summer 2008. Author: Arthur Sullivan