Some 2.6 percent of German youths aged between 12 and 17 are addicted to social media apps like WhatsApp, Instagram and Snapchat, a representative study by German health insurance firm DAK found. The percentage is the equivalent of 100,000 young people in Germany, according to the study. Read more: Smartphone addiction messes up brain chemistry Key findings: Read more: 'Influencer' named Anglicism of the year for 2017 Risk of depression "We have shown that there is clearly a higher risk of developing depression if you're addicted," Andreas Storm, DAK board member, told German public television. Read more: More German students suffer from depression, panic attacks The researchers point out, however, that it is still unclear if there is a causal relationship or if those youths who are prone to depression simply spend more time on social media, which can exacerbate or trigger the condition. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jlqQ What can be done about it? The study stresses that social media use per se is not to be discouraged, but that parents must find a way to limit their children's exposure to establish a "stable online-offline balance," Storm says. Read more:

EU : Facebook, Twitter still in violation of bloc's consumer law The study's authors call on the government to boost digital education in school curriculums with a particular focus on social media and the opportunities and risks associated with usage. The DAK, which is one of Germany's biggest statutory insurers with 5.8 million members, also wants more training for parents, teachers and other educators to help them to make children media savvy. The study was conducted by the Forsa Institute and the DAK in association with the German Center for Addiction Research in Childhood and Adolescence (UKE) in Hamburg, polling 1,001 youths. Whether hate speech, propaganda or activism, governments across the globe have upped efforts to curb content deemed illegal from circulating on social networks. From drawn-out court cases to blanket bans, DW examines how some countries try to stop the circulation of illicit content while others attempt to regulate social media. After a public debate in Germany, a new law on social media came into effect in October. The legislation imposes heavy fines on social media companies, such as Facebook, for failing to take down posts containing hate speech. Facebook and other social media companies have complained about the law, saying that harsh rules might lead to unnecessary censorship. In 2014, the European Court of Justice ruled that European citizens had the right to request search engines, such Google and Bing, remove "inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant or excessive" search results linked to their name. Although Google has complied with the ruling, it has done so reluctantly, warning that it could make the internet as "free as the world's least free place." In May, Ukraine imposed sanctions on Russian social media platforms and web services. The blanket ban affected millions of Ukrainian citizens, many of whom were anxious about their data. The move prompted young Ukrainians to protest on the streets, calling for the government to reinstate access to platforms that included VKontakte (VK), Russia's largest social network. In 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled that Safe Harbor, a 15-year-old pact between the US and EU that allowed the transfer of personal data without prior approval, was effectively invalid. Austrian law student Max Schrems launched the legal proceedings against Facebook in response to revelations made by former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor, Edward Snowden. In China, the use of social media is highly regulated by the government. Beijing has effectively blocked access to thousands of websites and platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest. Instead, China offers its citizens access to local social media platforms, such as Weibo and WeChat, which boast hundreds of millions of monthly users. Many politicians and media outlets blame Russia's influence for Donald Trump's election victory in 2016. Moscow reportedly used Facebook, Twitter, Google, and Instagram to shape public opinion on key issues. In October 2017, Twitter suspended over 2750 accounts due to alleged Russian propaganda. The platform also banned ads from RT (formerly Russia Today) and the Sputnik news agency. With social media under pressure for allowing alleged Russian meddling, Facebook announced a new project to combat such efforts in November 2017. The upcoming page will give users a chance to check if they "liked" or followed an alleged propaganda account on Facebook or Instagram. Author: Lewis Sanders IV (dj) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 