The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein warned Syria that potential war crimes were being comitted in Eastern Ghouta, speaking at an emergency session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva on Friday, "What we are seeing in Eastern Ghouta and elsewhere in Syria are likely war crimes and potentially crimes against humanity," he said. "Syria must be referred to the International Criminal Court. Attempts to thwart justice and shield these criminals are disgraceful." He warned that those responsible for the attacks were being identified and that the UN was compiling dossiers on their activities for future prosecution, noting: "The wheels of justice may be slow, but they do grind." Syrian government forces, with the backing of Russia, have been conducting airstrikes on the rebel-held Damascus suburb of Eastern Ghouta for the past 12 days. Those attacks have killed hundreds of civilians in the city of 400,000. Eastern Ghouta is the last rebel-held enclave near the Syrian capital. Read more: Opinion: Hell on Earth rages in Syria's eastern Ghouta, while the world watches Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tZ2t 'Selective and biased' Speaking in Geneva, Syrian Ambassador to the United Nations Hussam Aala accused Zeid of being "selective and biased" in his comments, adding that the entire debate was "politicized." He claimed that the Syrian army was doing everything possible to protect civilians and had opened "humanitarian corridors for the passage of civilians to separate them from the terrorists." On February 24, the United Nations Security Council voted unanimously in support of a 30-day ceasefire across Syria, nevertheless, airstrikes have continued to pound the city. Two days after the Security Council resolution was passed, Russia announced that it would enact daily, five-hour "humanitarian pauses." 'We need longer pauses' Speaking with DW TV, special advisor to the UN special envoy for Syria, Jan Egeland, said, "We need longer pauses." He added that the five-hour pauses also had to be respected by rebels within the city. Criticizing the fact that Russian-backed government forces were simply conducting airstrikes in areas outside Eastern Ghouta for short periods and then resuming them within as soon as the five hours had passed, Egeland said that if the pauses were not lengthened, "we cannot deliver aid in, we cannot take medical evacuations out and we cannot really ensure that civilians are safe if they want to leave the area." No humanitarian access Humanitarian organizations have been unable to provide medical treatment and food to Eastern Ghouta's 400,000 residents, many of whom have been trapped in basements across the bombed-out city fearing for their lives. Food is extremely scarce and malnutrition a major problem. Those residents who grow their own food in the area have also been unable to reach their parcels due to the heavy daily bombardments. Read more: Which rebel groups are fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta? And the death toll rises by the hour More than 650 people have been killed since government forces began bombing Eastern Ghouta on February 18. At least 103 have been killed since Russia declared its humanitarian pauses. Eastern Ghouta has been under siege from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces for the last four years. Syria's civil war, which has been raging since 2011, has become increasing entangled with a number of parties involved on many sides. More than 340,000 people have been killed and millions have been displaced since hostilities began and there are no indications that the fighting will stop any time soon. js/aw (AP,dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. More than 500 people have been killed so far in one of the most ferocious attacks on eastern Ghouta near Damascus since the conflict began in 2011. President Bashar Assad's forces continued their assault on eastern Ghouta despite a UN resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire, as well as a five-hour daily "pause" ordered by President Vladimir Putin, the Syrian regime's main ally. Referring to the Syrian regime's latest assault, which began on February 19, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres demanded "this hell on earth" be stopped immediately. Eastern Ghouta is one of the last rebel strongholds and is home to about 400,000 people, most of whom have been unable to flee. Damascus wants to gain territory, with the help of Russia, to secure its interests during peace talks. According to activists and doctors in the region, several people have suffered symptoms consistent with those triggered by a chlorine gas attack and had to be treated in hospital. French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the Syrian regime that the use of chemical weapons will result in French retaliation, but the Syrian government claims it has never used this kind of munition. A man and child look at the remains of a missile in the besieged settlement of Douma, the largest in eastern Ghouta. More than 300,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011, when the government cracked down on protesters who were calling for the release of political prisoners and for President Bashar Assad to step down. Activists say people in Douma have little food or water. Marten Mylius, the emergency relief coordinator for CARE in the Middle East, told DW that "after the tunnels were destroyed and the crossings closed, the price of basic foods skyrocketed. One kilo of rice now costs $4.50 (€3.66). A lot of people cannot afford that anymore. In other words, we are witnessing a rapid spread of malnutrition." Aid access to eastern Ghouta is difficult because there is no direct route from neighboring countries. "In Idlib, for example...you can get in directly from the Turkish border. You can wait with supplies at the border and then bring in the convoy. It is much more difficult in eastern Ghouta because we have to negotiate with the Syrian regime and are at the mercy of its decisions," Mylius told DW. The UN Security Council unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria "without delay" on February 24. Drafted by Kuwait and Sweden, the resolution proposed a 30-day pause in fighting across the country to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and people in need of emergency medical assistance to be evacuated. Russia insisted that the text not apply to the "Islamic State" group or al-Qaida. Author: Nicole Goebel