Amnesty International has accused international oil giants Shell and Eni of negligence when it comes to addressing spills in Nigeria's Niger Delta region, worsening an already serious environmental crisis. The organization said the companies were "taking weeks to respond to reports of spills and publishing misleading information about the cause of and severity of the spills, which may result in communities not receiving compensation." The findings were part of a research project released on Friday, which enlisted the help of thousands of supporters and activists to collect data about oil spills in the Niger Delta. Once a blessing, now a curse Oil spills in the Niger Delta region have brought misery to locals for many years. The valuable resource which was supposed to be a blessing for their communities has now become a curse. James Awani, an indigenous resident of Ogoniland — a region which was impacted by a reported 2,976 oil spills between 1976 and 1991 — told DW how the spills have affected his livelihood: "You go to our farm [and see that] oil has destroyed many things. We cannot farm again, so we are very hungry. We want the federal government to come and do something for us." Bodo Community River in Ogoniland has been devastated by oil spills Tammy Williams also lives in the oil region. She accuses international oil companies of not being considerate of the indigenous population and causing massive pollution in the area. "The oil companies in the Niger Delta have been so very unfair to the Niger Delta with regards to the oil spills and not performing their duties to the communities," she told DW, "It is terrible." The Nigerian village of Bodo used to subsist on fishing. But following oil leaks from Shell pipelines in the Niger Delta in 2008 and 2009, the nets have remained empty. People who want to make a living from fishing are forced to go out on the open sea. That means longer working hours and higher costs. Bodo is located in the Ogoniland region of the Niger Delta, in southeastern Nigeria. Like Bodo, most arms of the Niger are contaminated with oil. This poses a particular problem for the people there since they have always lived on and with the water. Even today, many villages can only be reached by boat. The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) released a report in 2011 about the oil leaks in Bodo and other parts of Ogoniland - recommending that the government and oil companies provide one billion dollars for the clean-up. So far though, the oil streaks that shimmer on the water still haven't been addressed. Saint Emmah Pii, Chief of Bodo, is angry. "We're all going to die miserably. We drink contaminated water. We breathe in poisonous fumes. It's all because of the oil." But outside of Bodo, no one seems to care. "Until now, neither the government in Abuja, nor the multinational corporations have shown any interest in our problems," the head of the village complains. Since the beginning of oil production in 1958, Nigeria has risen up to become the world's eighth biggest oil exporter. That makes the country extremely dependent on 'black gold,' which accounts for 90 percent of export profits. That's why people have tolerated pipelines like this one in the Rivers State. Flames like this one can flare up at any time anywhere in the Niger Delta - be that in the next village over or a few hundred meters away. Burning off gas as part of oil extraction was officially prohibited in 1984, but even 29 years later, no one checks whether Nigerians abide by the law. Chukwuma Samuel lividly gestures to the towering flame he and the entire village close to the small town of Egbema have to live with. "Look at the people here. They are angry," he says. "We are suffering here. We have to fight to survive and never see any of that oil wealth." The oil companies do not appreciate being accused of ignoring the people in the region. Shell, for its part, advertises its "Global Memorandum of Understanding" program - in which communities receive funds and can decide themselves how they want to spend them. The Obio Cottage Women's Clinic in Port Harcourt was rebuilt this way. When asked, every single patient praised Shell's good work. But Bodo hasn't seen any support at all, Kentebe Ebiaridor, of the Environmental Rights Action (ERA) organization, criticizes. The river bank soaked in oil (shown here) is glaring proof of that. "The men and women here feel abandoned," he says. Many Nigerians see the only share of their country's oil wealth to be the low price they pay for government-subsidized gas. At the end of 2011, one liter cost 65 naira (32 euro cents). However, in early 2012, the government discontinued part of the subsidy. After weeks of protest, the price settled at 97 naira (50 euro cents). Franziska Zabbey doesn't profit from the low gas price. She subsists from farming and only rarely leaves Bodo. Her work hardly pays enough for her to survive. " If Shell compensated us for the oil damage, I could open a small store," she hopes. There aren't many other options in Bodo. Even though it's hard to survive on fishing, the fishing boats are maintained. No one knows when they will be able to go out on the water again. The UNEP presumes it will take 25 to 30 years for the waters of Ogoniland to be oil-free. Author: Katrin Gänsler / cb Findings not a surprise Aniko Briggs, an environmental activist in the Niger Delta region, says Amnesty's findings are not surprising. "This is not strange," she told DW. "My organization also collects data: we physically go into the areas of spills. We have documentation going back almost 20 years of different spills across the Niger Delta River state Bayelsa and Delta State. From this we can show very clearly that it does not just take weeks but sometimes months for the oil company to respond to reports of spills. If you look at the fact that the pipes were laid almost 60 years ago — those pipes are still underground — they were laid at a time when the technology we have today was not in existence where you can very quickly detect a spill." Previous research by Amnesty had revealed information given in oil spill reports provided by Shell and Eni was often inaccurate. In once instance, Shell allegedly massively underestimated the amount of oil spilt in the small fishing town of Bodo between 2008 and 2009. However with Amnesty's assistance, the Bodo community eventually took legal action, forcing Shell to admit the real amount and pay 55 million pounds (62.3 million euros, $76.5 million) in compensation. Amnesty to present detailed report Amnesty now says it plans to present a detailed report of its findings to the Nigerian government, asking it to significantly strengthen its regulation of the oil industry. A Shell spokesman challenged Amnesty's allegations, calling them "false, without merit and fail to recognize the complex environment in which the company operates." An ENI spokeswoman also said the organization's statements "are not correct and, in some cases, not acceptable." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1J0Jr