Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos bumped Microsoft founder Bill Gates off the top spot of the world's richest billionaires for the first time, Forbes magazine revealed in its annual rich list on Tuesday. US President Donald Trump's fortunes were not as good. His ranking fell from 544th in 2017 to 766th in 2018. Read more: Donald Trump drops 92 places on Forbes' American rich list The top ten richest billionaires: 1. Jeff Bezos, Amazon CEO, $112 billion (€97 billion) 2. Bill Gates, Microsoft founder, $90 billion 3. Warren Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway CEO, $84 billion 4. Bernard Arnault, LVMH CEO, $72 billion 5. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook CEO, $71 billion 6. Amancio Ortego, Co-founder of Inditex, $70 billion 7. Carlos Slim Helu, Telmex CEO, $67.1 billion 8. (Tied) Charles Koch, Koch Industries CEO $60 billion 8. (Tied) David Koch, Koch Industries Executive Vice President $60 billion 10 Larry Ellison, Oracle Corporation CEO, $58.5 billion Read more: What if billionaires could live forever? The 77-year-old founder of the global German Lidl discount supermarket chain is worth 37 billion euros ($44.2 billion), according to Bilanz magazine - the richest German ever. The first Lidl branches opened in the 1970s around the city of Ludwigshafen, and have meanwhile expanded all over the world. New to the US this year, Lidl is in fierce competition with Walmart. Bilanz ranks the Reimann family, with its holdings in consumer health group Reckitt Benckiser and Wella hair products, second at 30 billion euros. What started as a chemical firm in the 19th century is now an empire that includes famous brands as diverse as Clearasil, Coty, Jimmy Choo and Krispy Kreme doughnuts. Elisabeth Schaeffler-Thumann and her son George, owners of the Schaeffler global automotive and industrial supplier, and major shareholders of tire-maker Continental, rank third among Germany’s richest families with an estimated fortune of 25.5 billion euros. Aldi is a household name in Germany. The family of Karl Albrecht, the head of Aldi Süd (south) and co-founder of the highly successful chain of discount supermarkets, is ranked as the fourth-wealthiest by Bilanz magazine at 23 billion euros. The reclusive Aldi co-founder died in 2014 - but his empire lives on across the globe and competes heavily with Lidl in Germany. Also highly discreet, the family of Karl’s brother Theo, the Aldi chain’s other founder, runs the northern German Aldi stores (Aldi Nord). It is estimated to be the fifth-wealthiest German family in 2017, with 18.5 billion euros. The family also runs the Trader Joe’s grocery store chain in the US. Luxury carmaker BMW, pharmaceutical and chemicals manufacturer Alatana, and the SGL graphite maker: Bilanz business magazine ranks 55-year-old entrepreneur and heiress Susanne Klatten sixth on its list of the richest Germans, worth 18.5 billion euros. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach Bezos' boost: The magazine said the 59 percent rise in the price of Amazon stocks caused the company's CEO to shoot up to the number 1 spot. The publication of the rich list led to another rise in stock price on Tuesday, boosting Bezos' worth to $127 billion in a matter of hours. Bezos also owns the US daily The Washington Post and the rocket manufacturer Blue Origin. Frenchman richest in Europe: Bernard Arnault was able to enter the top ten after achieving a solid 11th place in the 2017 list. The magazine said the euro's increased strength against the dollar in the previous year helped Arnault snatch fourth spot. Read more: Oxfam: Richest one percent banked 82 percent of wealth created in 2017 Poor Trump: The US president, who has regularly touted his intelligence and business acumen, saw an estimated $400 million shaved off his wealth in the past year. Trump is now estimated to be worth $3.1 billion. Chinese gains: The top 20 included two new entries from China: Alibaba founder Jack Ma and the richest person in Asia, Ma Huateng, who is CEO of the Chinese internet company Tencent. China, which is ruled by the Communist Party of China, has the second highest number of billionaires in the world (373) after the United States (585). Read more: Rich Chinese lawmakers get richer, but fewer MPs share the spoils Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2skMv In and out: Of the 259 new billionaires to enter the list, some were among the world's first cryptocurrency billionaires. 121 people who had been on last year's list had the misfortune of becoming "mere" millionaires. Pretty successful year: Overall, the billionaire class did an admirable job since Forbes' 2017 list. There are now a record 2,208 billionaires worldwide and their combined worth is $9.1 trillion. That is an 18 percent increase in combined wealth compared to 2017. The group was also able to increase their average fortune to a new record: $4.1 billion. amp/rt (AFP, AP, dpa)