Thousands of protesters took to the streets of Sydney on Saturday to protest Southeast Asian leaders gathering in the Australian city for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) summit. "We are here today in solidarity among the communities from Southeast Asia who are facing dictatorship and genocide, of course particularly in the Rohingya community," said Shawfikul Islam from the Australian Burmese Rohingya Organization. Read more: Myanmar's Rohingya: A history of forced exoduses Banners carried by protesters showed images of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi with a stylized moustache reminiscent of Nazi Germany dictator Adolf Hitler, calling for her to return the esteemed prize. She has had several awards revoked over the military campaign. Suu Kyi has been accused by Western governments and human rights groups of doing nothing to stop the Burmese military from implementing a brutal crackdown against the Muslim-minority Rohingya in western Myanmar. Many have called it a campaign of ethnic cleansing. Protesters have decried human rights violations in Cambodia after Prime Minister Hun Sen threatened to "beat" anyone rallying against his regime in Australia 'Hands full of blood' A group of Australian lawyers on Saturday sought to have Suu Kyi prosecuted on charges of crimes against humanity. However, Australian Attorney General Christian Porter rejected their legal application, saying she "has complete immunity, including from being served with court documents." Protesters and rights groups also singled out Cambodian strongman Hun Sen's regime for committing human rights violations. The Cambodian leader threatened violence against demonstrators before arriving in Sydney. Read more: Is Cambodia an autocratic state now? Victorian lawmaker Hong Lim of the Labor party accused Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of turning a blind-eye to human rights abuses, saying: "Many of the hands he's shaking yesterday, today and tomorrow are hands full of blood." Australia has signed an agreement with ASEAN states to further increase counterterrorism cooperation despite protests decrying human rights violations committed by several of the bloc's members Security pact The protests overshadowed an agreement signed by Australia and 10 ASEAN member states to bolster cooperation and coordination to counter terrorism in the region. "Terrorism and violent extremism transcend national borders," said Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton. "Countering the threat requires a united and cohesive regional effort involving coordination between our respective national security and law enforcement agencies." Read more: Is Philippines' Marawi free from 'Islamic State' influence? Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said that the "Islamic State" militant group was targeting the region's 300 million Muslims. With the group effectively losing most of the territory it held in Iraq and Syria, it has tried to expand its influence in areas outside the Middle East, including Southeast Asia and Africa. The security agreement aims to streamline cooperation on intercepting messages and preventing radicalization, including by expanding methods to break through encrypted platforms. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) celebrated its 50th anniversary last year. Since its founding, the bloc has emerged as a beacon of unity in Southeast Asia, although it has often struggled to find consensus among members over key policy issues affecting the region's politics, security and the economy, among other things. The Sultanate of Brunei, located on the north coast of the island of Borneo, is one of the richest nations in the world. The small, oil-rich country is governed by its sultan as an absolute Muslim monarchy. Islam is the official religion in Brunei, with Sunni Muslims making up about 70 percent of the population. The sultan also sees himself as the main custodian of religious beliefs in Brunei. Cambodia joined the ASEAN grouping in 1999 and during the past ten years, the Cambodian economy has grown by at least 7 percent year after year. That makes it one of the fastest growing economies in the world. But unequal distribution of wealth and income is a problem, with many of the nation's around 16-million strong population stuck in abject poverty, especially in rural areas. Indonesia plays a salient role in ASEAN due to its status as the bloc's most populous member state as well as the world's most populous Muslim nation, with over 250 million inhabitants. ASEAN secretariat is also based in the country's capital Jakarta. Indonesia, which comprises around 17,000 islands, is the world's largest archipelago nation and boasts Southeast Asia's biggest economy. Laos became a member of the ASEAN bloc in 1997. The country has a population of around 6.5 million. Around 80 percent of the inhabitants of the poor, landlocked and isolated communist country depend upon farming for their livelihood. That's how they subsist and feed their families. Laos has an increasingly closer relationship with China. A founding member of ASEAN, Malaysia has the club's third-largest economy. Religion and politics are sensitive issues in Malaysian politics, with the deadly sectarian riots of 1969 often cited for the need to maintain ethnic harmony in the country. Over 60 percent of Malaysia's 30 million inhabitants is Muslim, with the rest adhering to Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism and other religions. Myanmar, which joined the club in 1997, was ruled by a military junta for decades that left it impoverished. The party of Aung San Suu Kyi, the nation's democracy icon, won the first fully free elections for generations held in 2015. But authorities are struggling to tackle a powerful Buddhist nationalist movement that has grown in strength in recent years and favors the former military rulers. The Philippines, an archipelago nation consisting of thousands of islands, is one of the most disaster-prone areas in the world. The country has an over 100-million-strong population and one of the fastest expanding economies. But it has suffered major environmental degradation in recent years due to reasons such as mismanagement of resources, deforestation and high population growth. The wealthy city-state has been a member of ASEAN since the bloc's founding in 1967. The country has a thriving economy, which has grown at a rapid pace since independence, underpinned by its position as a global financial hub. Densely-populated Singapore has a multi-racial citizenry as well as tough laws against protests and curbs on press freedom. Thailand's politics have been characterized by a long series of coups, with the nation's military frequently ousting democratically elected governments. The junta's 2014 coup marked the 12th successful military takeover since Thailand embraced parliamentary democracy 85 years ago. The country boasts Southeast Asia's second-biggest economy and reputation for being an attractive tourist destination. Vietnam has been ruled by a one-party communist state since the end of the Vietnam War in 1975. Since 1986, Vietnam has introduced sweeping market reforms to boost growth and development. But the ruling party doesn't permit criticism and the country is ranked among the worst for press freedom. Vietnam joined ASEAN in 1995. Author: Srinivas Mazumdaru ls/jlw (AFP, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.