Amin Younes had a great season in 2016/17. The young German attacker was key to Ajax's run to the Europa League final, and made his debut for the German national team during the Confederations Cup, scoring in the semifinal and drawing plaudits for great performances in the process, including from Germany's national team Joachim Löw. "(Younes) has incredible one-on-one abilities," explained Löw when asked about his decision to call up Younes ahead of the Confederations Cup. "He can take out three players in one go. That's an ability not many of our players has." However, this season played out entirely differently for the former Gladbach player. Younes, who was a regular starter for the Amsterdam side, had to sit on the sidelines for two months due to a knee injury in November, allowing others to take his place in the XI. Since his return to fitness, the attacker only came on as a substitute on four occasions, mostly for a single-digit number of minutes. Trouble It doesn't stop there. Younes made the headlines across the continent as he refused to come on for the last minutes of Ajax's 4-1 home win against Heerenveen after being asked to by coach Erik ten Hag. The incident was caught on video, and is now doing the rounds on social media. "I wanted to reward him for his hard work in training, but he felt that his presence on the pitch wasn't necessary,” said ten Hag after the game. "I'll talk to him privately.” As a result, Younes has been demoted to Ajax's reserve team until further notice. Amin Younes scored for Germany in the Confederations Cup semifinal Deal or no deal? The 24-year-old, whose contract runs up at the end of the season, has reportedly agreed a move to Napoli in the January transfer window. Younes passed his medical, and the deal looked as good as done, but Younes then asked the Italian club to postpone the deal to the summer due to "family reasons.”"I don't know if I'll go to Napoli in the summer,” the attacker told Dutch outlet De Telegraaf, while also speculating that he might renew his contract at Ajax after all. However, Napoli President Aurelio De Laurentiis argues otherwise, saying that Younes has reached a pre-agreement with the club, adding that he hasn't joined the club in January due to "family problems.” De Laurentiis also insinuated that Younes's sudden change of heart is as a result of what he called "a triangle of friends,” referring to Juventus and Bayern Munich, who have reportedly tried to sign Younes. Bundesliga a possible getaway Gladbach sporting director Max Eberl. Could a Bundesliga return help Younes? According to tabloid Bild, Borussia Mönchengladbach are interested in resigning Younes. The club's hierarchy allegedly believe that putting their trust in the German during this difficult time for him would prove to be worth it. The fact that Younes would also get to play and live close to his hometown of Düsseldorf is also playing a big role in the player's decision, according to the report. Other sides that will reportedly look to secure the 24-year-old attacker's signature include RB Leipzig and Schalke. Whatever his next opportunity, Amin Younes will probably get another chance to prove himself, and it is most likely to happen back home, close to his family his friends. But given his behavioral record over the last few months, he's going to need to take that with both hands for his career to take off.