French fashion designer Hubert de Givenchy has died aged 91, according to a statement released by his partner Philippe Venet on Monday. Audrey Hepburn wearing the iconic dress in "Breakfast at Tiffany's" The designer was perhaps best known for styling the likes of former First Lady Jackie Kennedy and actress Audrey Hepburn. The latter's "little black dress" for the film "Breakfast at Tiffany's" became an iconic piece of 20th-century fashion. Givenchy met Hepburn on the set of the Billy Wilder's Oscar-winning comedy "Sabrina" in 1953. The star remained his friend and muse for more than 40 years. With her shift dresses, pillbox hats and low-heeled pumps, former US First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy also adopted the Givenchy look during her White House years. Read more: Audrey Hepburn's personal collection goes on sale at auction In 1952 Givenchy launched his eponymous luxury fashion house, which became part of the LVMH group in 1988. After his retirement in 1995, Givenchy was succeeded by John Galliano as head designer. 'Parisian elegance' "Hubert de Givenchy was a symbol of Parisian elegance for more than half a century," his label said in a statement. "He was the first creator to launch a luxury ready-to-wear range. He revolutionized international fashion in creating the timeless looks for Audrey Hepburn, his friend and muse for more than 40 years." Clare Waight Keller, artistic director at Givenchy, said on Instagram: "I am deeply saddened by the loss of a great man and artist I have had the honor to meet and get to know." She referred to the late designer as both "one of the most influential fashion figures of our time" and "the definition of a true gentleman." Audrey Hepburn became an icon in 1961 as Holly Golightly in "Breakfast at Tiffany's." Her little black dress became her trademark and has been copied all over the world. However, being an extravagant party girl isn't all it's cracked up to be. Holly searches for love in New York's nightlife and sings about it in the song "Moon River." Hepburn started her acting career at the age of just 20. She would have preferred dancing and singing to acting. But then she did get a chance to do just that – on Broadway. In 1952, she even received a prestigious theater award for starring in the musical of Colette's "Gigi," which drew Hollywood's attention as well. Hollywood did not hesitate very long and quickly cast the 24-year-old actress as Princess Anne in "Roman Holiday" (1953), co-starring with superstar Gregory Peck who played a reporter. She gained world fame over night, and even received her first Oscar as best actress. In "The Nun's Story" (1959), Audrey Hepburn plays a woman plagued by doubts. She feels called by God, but sees herself unable to adhere to the strict rules of the order. Some film critics called this Hepburn's best performance. It was quite a challenging role, considering that her nun's habit limited her means of expression. The comedy "How to Steel a Million?," shot in Paris in 1966, gave Audrey Hepburn plenty of opportunity to present her comical talent. As the daughter of a counterfeit art dealer, she is torn between her loyalty to her father and a detective she falls in love with. The outfit pictured above was created by her friend and personal designer Hubert de Givenchy. "Wait Until Dark" (1967) is a thriller about a blind woman chased by a brutal criminal. Hepburn's co-star, Alan Arkin, must have had a hard time during filming because he constantly had to frighten the beautiful actress. Despite his reluctance, he succeeded in his role - and Audrey Hepburn played the horrified woman with elegance. In "The Children's Hour" (1961), the two young teachers Karen (Audrey Hepburn) and Martha (Shirley MacLaine) found a finishing school for girls. The school enjoys a good reputation until a mischevious girl spreads rumors on the presumed homosexuality of the two teachers, destroying not only the school, but also the lives of the teachers. Hepburn and MacLaine are pictured with co-star James Garner. The names of Audrey Hepburn's male co-stars read like Hollywood's "Who's Who": Gary Cooper, Gregory Peck, Humphrey Bogart, Fred Astaire, Peter O'Toole, Burt Lancaster - and last but not least, Cary Grant. Grant was twice as old as Hepburn when he co-starred with her in the 1963 comedy "Charade," but hardly looked it. Both received a Golden Globe for this film. Audrey Hepburn never considered herself an exceptional beauty. She was convinced her teeth were crooked and her ears and feet too big. She had never thought she would ever make it as an actress. Thirty movies and almost as many awards have fortunately proven her wrong. Author: Silke Wünsch (ad) rls/eg (AFP, dpa) 