A court in Iran sentenced a woman to two years in prison for removing her headscarf in public, the judiciary announced on Wednesday. She did so while taking part in protests against the country's compulsory requirement for women to cover their hair in public. Since December, many women have begun removing their headscarves and waving them like flags from sticks on streets across the country. At least 30 women have been arrested and detained since the protests began. 'Encouraging moral corruption' Tehran Public Prosecutor Abbas Jafar Dolatabadi said that infractions against the law would be dealt with "firmly." He cited the fact that the woman had "encouraged moral corruption" as the reason for the stiff sentence. The woman reportedly showed no remorse for her actions, trying instead to convince the judge that the law was wrong. She plans to appeal to verdict. Iranian women tend to wear their headscarves loosely despite the strictness of the Islamic Republic's laws Tolerance has its limits Since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, all women – Iranian, foreign, Muslim or non-Muslim – have been required to be entirely veiled in public. In recent years, many Iranian women have flouted the strictness of the law, preferring to wear their headscarves more loosely. It is not uncommon to see Iranian women driving cars with their headscarves draped over their shoulders rather than on their heads. Dolatabadi said if police witnessed such cases they would impound the vehicle of the offending driver. He added that although some "tolerance" could be shown toward women who wear their veils loosely, "we must act with force against people who deliberately question the rules on the Islamic veil." js/aw (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Most Islamic scholars agree that the hijab, which covers the head and neck, and comes in any number of shapes and colors, must be worn by Muslim women. American teen Hannah Schraim is seen wearing one here while playing with her brother. The chador, which is usually black, is a body-length outer garmet often worn in Iran and among modern-minded women in the Gulf States, as here in Saudi Arabia. It is not fastened with clasps or buttons and therefore has to be held closed by the wearer. A niqab is a veil and scarf that covers the entire face yet leaves the eyes free. It covers a woman's hair as it falls to the middle of her back and some are also half-length in the front so as to cover her chest. Here it is being worn by women attending a rally by Salafi radicals in Germany. An abaya is a loose-fitting, full-length garment designed to cover the body. It may come in many different styles, as seen here at an Arab fashion show, and is often worn in combination with hijab or niqab. The burqa is the most extensive of all Muslim garments, covering the entire body from head to toe. It traditionally has a woven mesh area around the eyes to allow women to see. In this case enabling them to cast their ballots in Pakistani parliamentary elections. Queen Rania of Jordan says that Islam does not coerce women to wear any head coverings, and that it is more important to judge a woman by her ethics and values, rather than what she wears. She is seen here meeting with refugees in Greece. Author: Jon Shelton