A hardline conservative grouping led by the Democratic Center party made gains in Colombia's legislative elections, according to official results published on Monday. In the Senate, the Democratic Center garnered the most votes with 16.4 percent. It came in second in the House of Representatives with 16 percent, marking an increase of more than 40 percent compared to the 2014 election. The conservative party, led by former President Alvaro Uribe, campaigned by opposing a peace deal struck between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) less than 18 months ago. Read more: Colombia struggles with the demons of peace The deal effectively ended the 52-year-old insurgency launched by the rebels. However, the accord also ensured a political party birthed from the rebel movement would automatically gain 10 seats in Colombia's lower and upper house. Ivan Duque, who will run for the presidency later this year as a candidate for the Democratic Center, said the former rebels' ability to participate in the political process amounted to impunity after committing atrocities for decades. "A true peace is built through the triumph of the rule of law, not by relativizing justice," Duque said. President Juan Manuel Santos, who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in the decades-long conflict with FARC, described the elections as 'the most peaceful' in the country's modern history Moderates gain, FARC loses However, the conservative grouping fell short of an absolute majority with three moderate parties that had formed part of President Juan Manuel Santos' coalition government pulling 43 percent of the vote in the upper house and 38 percent in the lower house. The moderate camp's result likely gives them the ability to block attempts to deride the implementation of the peace process. On the other hand, FARC failed to gain any other seats besides the 10 allocated to them under the peace process. The rebels-turned-politicians garnered 0.35 percent of the vote for the Senate and 0.22 percent in the House of Representatives. Read more: Colombia struggles to accept guerrillas' new political role Their performance was in line with pre-election projections following a disastrous campaign that witnessed several of their candidates mobbed at rallies. Despite the peace process, much of the Colombian public remains outraged by atrocities committed by the rebels during the decades-long conflict. FARC rebels in 1964 launched an insurgency against the Colombian state in response to the government's brutal suppression of a peasant uprising. The ensuing conflict left more than 250,000 people dead, seven million displaced and 50,000 missing. In 1948, the assassination of populist leader Jorge Eliecer Gaitan sparked political chaos in Colombia known as "the violence." Tens of thousands died and peasant groups joined with communists to arm themselves. Later in 1964, a military attack on the insurgency's main encampment led to the creation of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC. FARC's political ideology has never been well defined. Initially, it sought to weaken the oligarchy's grip on power. The rebels also wanted land reforms in a country where more than 5 million people have been forcibly displaced, mostly by far-right militias. However, the group lost popularity as it turned to kidnapping and illegal gold mining for funds. To help the Colombian security forces fight against the insurgency and to counter drug-trafficking, the US began sending billions of dollars under Plan Colombia. The US State Department classifies the group as a terrorist organization and its leaders face US indictments. Latin America's longest-running armed conflict is responsible for the death an estimated 220,000 people, while millions of Colombians have been displaced within their country. According to Bogota’s estimates, there are 7.6 million direct and indirect victims of the conflict. The country has more landmine victims than any country except for Afghanistan. Peace talks between FARC and the government collapsed in the mid 1980s after at least 3,000 allies of FARC's political wing Patriotic Union Party were killed at the hands of right-wing paramilitaries. Efforts fell short again in 2002 after the rebels hijacked an airliner to kidnap a senator. The latest round of talks started in 2012 in Havana and culminated on August 24, 2016 with a deal. "We have reached a final, integral and definitive agreement" to end the conflict and build a stable, lasting peace, the government of President Juan Manuel Santos and the left-wing Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia said in a joint statement. In June, the negotiators had already announced a cease-fire agreement and a blueprint for how the estimated 7,000 to 8,000 fighters will demobilize. Author: Aasim Saleem ls/ng (EFE, AFP, AP) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.