Best known for her award-winning autobiographical novel, "Brown Girl Dreaming" (2014), Jacqueline Woodson has been awarded the world's largest prize for children's and young adult literature at a ceremony in Stockholm. Worth 5 million Swedish Kroners (€490,000, $607,000), the award is given annually to a single laureate or to several from among global authors, illustrators and oral storytellers. Read more: 10 German children's books classics you can read in English Born in 1963 and residing today in Brooklyn, New York, Woodson is the author of more than thirty books, including novels, poetry and picture books. She writes primarily for young teens but also for children and adults. "Jacqueline Woodson introduces us to resilient young people fighting to find a place where their lives can take root," the citation of the award jury read. "In language as light as air, she tells stories of resounding richness and depth.” Read more: Artists After the Escape: Judith Kerr, children's book author Presenting tough topics to children Jacqueline Woodson at a rally in support of free speech held on the steps of the New York Public Library on January 15, 2017 Woodson often writes about teens making the transition from childhood to adult life. Her books are written in the first person, usually from a female point of view. Racism, social exclusion, prejudice and sexual identity are all recurring themes. "It's important to hold up mirrors for kids to see their experience is legitimate. Too often those mirrors aren't there for them,” Woodson said about her work. This commitment caused her to be named National Ambassador for Young People's Literature in the US this January. The  Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award seeks to promote the ideals laid out in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The prize is named after the beloved Swedish author best-known for the children's classic, "Pippi Longstockings." For this year's award, 235 candidates from 60 countries were nominated. In 2017, the German illustrator Wolf Erlbruch received the award for his ability to "make existential questions accessible and manageable for readers of all ages." Previous laureates include Meg Rosoff (2016), Philip Pullman (2005), Kitty Crowther (2010), Barbro Lindgren (2014) and Shaun Tan (2011). In its inaugural year of 2003, the award was won by Maurice Sendak for his 1963 classic, "Where the Wild Things Are" and by Austrian author Christine Nöstlinger. Grown-ups might find this book about the little mole with poop on his head a bit embarrassing, but that hasn't kept it from becoming internationally known. Wolf Erbruch's 1989 book has a promising title — and doesn't disappoint. In 2017, Erbuch became the first German to win the Astrid Lindgren Prize, which was founded in 2002 in honor of the Pippi Longstocking author from Sweden. "Max and Moritz (A Story of Seven Boyish Pranks)" was published by Wilhelm Busch in 1865 and has since found its way into countless German children's rooms. The illustrated story about the two mischievous boys is told in rhymes that are still quoted to this day. The book's title satirizes the way theater plays were often given subtitles at the time. The book "Die Häschenschule" by Albert Sixtus, illustrated by Fritz Koch-Gotha, is also told in rhymes. The story of bunny siblings Hans and Grete was first published in 1924 - a time when teachers were authoritarian, pupils were well behaved and foxes were naughty. This 1958 children's book by Nils Werner, illustrated by Heinz Behling, was a classic in communist East Germany and was adapted as a film. Even today, it's particularly popular in eastern Germany. In the story, a little devil steals the pancakes for grandma's birthday party and a wild chase ensues. Behling was also a caricaturist and co-founder of the East German satire magazine, "Eulenspiegel." Ali Mitgutsch is considered the father of hidden-picture books in the German-speaking world. His first volume, "Rundherum in meiner Stadt" (Around in My City) came out in 1968 and received the German Youth Literature Prize the following year. Since then, numerous volumes of highly detailed illustrations have been published in Germany and abroad. His books contain no words, but lots of humor. In 1982's "Friends" by Helme Heine, a pig, a chicken and a mouse go on adventures together. The author, a Berlin native, currently lives in New Zealand and his works have been translated into many different languages. "Friends" was adapted as the animated feature "Mullewapp" from 2009. Bobo's recipe for success seems to be simple drawings about everyday life in the zoo, at the playground and in the backyard, each accompanied by some short text. Swiss author Markus Osterwalder first released the stories in 1984 and they have since been adapted into numerous cartoon series. In 1992, Swiss author Marcus Pfister released his colorful picture book about the joy of sharing, friendship and being an individual. The story of the fish with the shiny scales has been translated into numerous languages and adapted as a musical and cartoon series. The fish is also available as a bath toy. The poem "Next Please" by Austrian poet Ernst Jandl, about the fear of waiting your turn at the doctor's office, was first published in 1970. In 1997, Norman Junge illustrated a children's book based on the poem, which was nominated for the German Youth Literature Prize. The original German title is "fünfter sein" — being fifth. British author Julia Donaldson and German illustrator Axel Scheffler teamed up to make a true classic with "The Gruffalo." The English version appeared in 1999 and the German edition followed in 2002. In the story, a mouse tells the other animals about his imaginary friend, the dangerous Gruffalo. But it turns out he's real! A 2011 animated film based on the book was nominated for an Oscar. Author: Klaudia Prevezanos (kbm)