A German court on Thursday sentenced a 33-year-old man to eight months probation and a fine of €2,000 ($2,300) for making the Hitler salute during far-right protests in Chemnitz. The conviction comes just two weeks after a wave of violent anti-migrant demonstrations and counter protests broke out in the eastern German city. It is the first sentence relating to the unrest. The man had been accused of displaying the publicly banned greeting during a march on September 1, which was organized by the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, the anti-Islam PEGIDA movement and the ethno-nationalist Pro Chemnitz group. He was convicted of using symbols of a banned organization, assaulting law enforcement and attempted assault. Read more: Chemnitz and Kandel: How hashtags shape German politics The demonstrations were sparked by a deadly brawl that broke out in the German city of Chemnitz in the early hours of Sunday (August 26). What started out as a war of words resulted in a 35-year-old man being stabbed to death. Hours later, spontaneous, anti-migrant protests took over the streets of Chemnitz. A German-Cuban man was stabbed in an altercation involving 10 people, several of whom were of "various nationalities," police sources said. The victim, named only as Daniel H., was apparently well-known among various political groups in the area. Two men in their 30s were also stabbed and seriously injured, and a 22-year-old Iraqi and 23-year-old Syrian are in custody over the killing. By Sunday afternoon, some 800 people had gathered to protest the man's death, including far-right groups. Authorities said the crowd was largely uncooperative and threw bottles at police officers. Police reinforcements had to be called in from nearby cities. The mobilizations were spontaneous and are thought to have surfaced following calls to demonstrate on social media. German authorities said that that far-right groups spread misinformation on the internet. Among the false claims was that the victim of the knife attack died protecting a woman. Thousands of far-right and counterdemonstrators faced off in a second day of protest Monday. Several people were injured as objects and fireworks were hurled. Video footage showed the far-right "Pro Chemnitz" movement holding a banner with a quote from early 20th century poet Anton Günther reading "German and free we aim to be." Counter-demonstrators denouncing right-wing extremism also took to the streets of Chemnitz. Among the protesters were Antifa, who clashed with right-wing demonstrators. Author: Louisa Wright The district court in Chemnitz has implemented fast-track criminal procedures in order to process all the suspects charged with violating Germany's stringent hate speech laws. The Hitler salute, swastikas and other Nazi symbols are all strictly prohibited in public. On Friday, a 34-year-old also faces trial on the same charge. Politicians in Berlin have praised the city for dealing with crimes so efficiently. Stephan Harbarth, the Bundestag vice-chair for Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), called it "a good signal…it shows that our constitutional state works." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34X11 The tension in Chemnitz touched off in the last weekend of August, when a 35-year-old man was stabbed to death, allegedly by refugees. Right-wing groups capitalized on the tragedy and launched a series of xenophobic rallies, which were met with even larger counter-demonstrations. Dozens were injured in scuffles that broke out between the groups. Pro Chemnitz has called for another rally in the city center on Friday. This week saw the "Wolves are Back" sculpture arrive in Chemnitz. The art project displays 10 snarling bronze wolves performing the Hitler salute. The organizers say the installation protests the "growing hatred" in the city. "The Wolves Are Back" is a series of 66 bronze statues of wolves. Some do the Hitler salute, which is usually banned in Germany. Artist Rainer Opolka says the work is meant to remind people of the threat of racism. Far-right sympathizers often use the wolf to describe themselves. The AfD's Björn Höcke used the word recently, Hitler's propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, used it as early as 1928. Opolka has brought his statues all around the country to places where racism and xenophobia are on display. They have been on show in Dresden during the anti-immigrant PEGIDA marches, and outside the Munich courthouse during the sentencing of Beate Zschäpe, a member of the neo-Nazi NSU terror cell. When the far-right Pro Chemnitz group launches it newest rally on Friday, both the city's famous Karl Marx statue and the wolves will be watching. While some of the wolves have an aggressive stance, some also appear with blindfolds. After a series of far-right rallies in early September, Chemnitz has been trying to reclaim its image from the negative headlines. Large banners in the city center decry ethno-nationalism, and an anti-racism concert held under the banner "We are more" attracted some 65,000 people. Officials in Chemnitz have voiced their concern that the unrest will permanently damage the city's image. They've gone to great lengths to distance themselves from the right-wing rallies, and have fast-tracked criminal proceedings for those who committed violence or broke hate speech laws during the protests. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher es/rt (AFP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.