In his address to the UN General Assembly on Tuesday, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe eased his hard-line stance against North Korea, saying he is ready and willing to meet the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un, to bring an end to decades of mutual distrust and make "a new start." Political analysts in Japan say Abe's comments suggest that there may well have been back-channel negotiations underway to organize a meeting between the leaders. Read more: Is Japan breaking with pacifism to increase defense spending? In contrast to his speech at the same forum a year ago — when he warned that the window for diplomacy with Pyongyang was closing — Abe struck a more conciliatory tone, saying he had been watching the debate over the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula with "the greatest interest." But he did reiterate Tokyo's position that normalizing diplomatic relations between the nations cannot proceed unless the question of the North's nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is resolved. Another major sticking point that needs to be resolved is the issue of Japanese nationals abducted by North Korean agents in the 1970s and 1980s. Exploring the possible Jeff Kingston, director of Asian Studies at the Tokyo campus of Temple University, said the idea of an Abe-Kim meeting had been floated by the prime minister's office earlier this year. It is likely that discussions on arranging the summit are taking place behind the scenes, he added. "The problem for Abe is that he is on the outside looking in at all the diplomacy and summitry that has taken place in Northeast Asia in recent months. This has very much left Japan on the sidelines," Kingston told DW. "That is largely because Abe has taken such a hardline stance against Pyongyang and been the strongest supporter of the 'maximum pressure' policy. "It is a major about-face for a leader who was this time last year advocating regime change in the North to now be expressing his willingness to engage," he pointed out. "And that is very sensible and talking is far better than the alternative," Kingston said. "Abe can go into any discussions with realistic expectations of what might be achieved, but he can also explore just what is possible." The fear in Tokyo will be that any talks get bogged down in discussions over the fates of Japanese civilians abducted by the North in the 1970s and 1980s to train the regime's spies in Japanese language and culture. The fundamental difference of opinion regarding the abductions is likely to render any proposals for talks meaningless, said Jun Okumura, a political analyst with the Meiji Institute for Global Affairs. "Abe is not one to change his position on issues that matter to him politically or personally and denuclearization of the North and the fate of the abductees fall into those categories," he said. "I would never say never about a meeting taking place, but I think it would be very difficult for Abe to speak with Kim and return to the Japanese public empty-handed on these two matters. "And we have to remember that Kim does not actually need Japan very much any more as China and Russia have effectively eased the sanctions on his regime," Okumura added. Read more: What's next for Japan's forgotten prisoners in North Korea? Further complications The relationship between Tokyo and Pyongyang, he said, is likely to become even more complicated if the North continues to demand that Japan provide an apology and compensation for its "past wrongdoings" during its colonial rule of the Korean Peninsula from 1910 to 1945. Pyongyang has not publically set a figure for compensation, but most expect it to be billions of dollars. And North Korean state media have missed no opportunity in recent months to paint Abe and Japan in general in a poor light. Just hours before Abe's speech to the UN, the state-run Korea Central News Agency ran a story accusing Japan of "disturbing the peace" in the region with its own "wild militarist ambition." "For any talks to happen, Abe needs to be able to show he's going to get something more concrete for his efforts," said Okumura. "And while I do not doubt that Abe is honest and sincere on these issues, I think they are long-shot aspirations." Every year on September 9, North Korea celebrates its birthday by holding a military parade in the capital, Pyongyang. Unlike previous years, this year the regime chose to refrain from showing off its long-range missiles and instead exhibited projects that highlighted the country's economic achievements. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea, as the North is officially known, was proclaimed on September 9, 1948, three years after the former Soviet Union and the United State divided the peninsula between them in the closing days of World War II. The peninsula has remained split since the 1950-53 Korean War, which ended in an armistice rather than a peace treaty. On Sunday, thousands of North Korean troops, followed by artillery and military tanks, paraded through Pyongyang, but the celebration lacked the usual jingoism that has been associated with the isolated regime for decades. Immediately after the parade, thousands of citizens rallied through Kim Il Sung Square, displaying economic themes and calls for Korean reunification. Civilian groups carried flags and flowers in a bid to demonstrate a softer image of the country. "It looks like the North Koreans really tried to tone down the military nature of this," Chad O'Carroll, managing director of Korea Risk Group, told the Agence France-Presse news agency. Any display of intercontinental ballistic missiles would cast doubt on its commitment to denuclearization, he added. North Koran leader Kim Jong Un was present at the parade but did not address the assembled crowd. He showed off his country's friendship with China by raising the hand of President Xi Jinping's envoy as they saluted the crowd together afterwards. In a historic meeting with US President Donald Trump in June, Kim pledged to work toward denuclearizing the Korean peninsula. But Kim's efforts to ease tensions with the US have stalled since the Singapore meeting. While Washington insists Pyongyang commits to denuclearization first, the Kim regime wants the removal of sanctions and a peace agreement with the South to end the Korean War. South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who will meet Kim for a summit in Pyongyang on September 18, will try to persuade the North Korean leader to take concrete steps toward denuclearization. On September 5, Kim said he wanted to denuclearize during US President Donald Trump's first term, to which Trump replied on Twitter: "We will get it done together." Author: Shamil Shams