Refresh page for live updates (all times in CEST) 57' Dion Cools cones on for Brugge. Great name. 54' Wesley has been Brugge's most dangerous player tonight, and he drives forward on the break but checks his run and finds a teammate, but the move breaks down. If Brugge score, Dortmund can have no complaints. 50' Dortmund are keeping the ball much better at the start of the second period. 46' KICK OFF! The second half is underway. 45' Half time — Club Brugge 0-0 Dortmund 44' Chance just before the break for Dortmund as Akanji picks out Schmelzer at the far post, but the ball bounces right in front of him and his header is an awkward one and bounces wide. 42' Dortmund trying to get their boot on the ball as Favre barks instructions from his technical area. 38' Brugge may rue to miss these chances. They've created plenty of them, and you feel Dortmund will punish them if they can create something clear cut. 34' Brugge are first to every loose ball in midfield and Dortmund look a little flat at the moment. Weigl, Witsel and Götze need to do more. 30' Dortmund penalty? The ball bounces off Hans Vanaken's boot and on to his hand. Looked a clear penalty, but the referee was not interested. 27' Really good period of the game for Brugge, who are starting to call the shots. Dortmund just aren't doing enough in midfield to control the game. 24' Worrying times for Dortmund as Brugge piling forward and almost making the breakthrough. This time the ball trickles just wide of Bürki's post, but Brugge starting to dominate. 22' Bürki saves! Wesley cuts in from the left and lets fly, but Bürki makes a flying save to his left. You#d expect Bürki to make the save, but he pulls it off well. 19' Chance Brugge! Reus forced into some last-ditch defending as Brugge almost force the ball over the line. 15' Reus forces a corner with a deflected shot, but Witsel heads over from the corner. Lucien Favre has named a strong Dortmund team on paper, but they have struggled to impose themselves in the first half. 11' Jelle Vossen goes close for Brugge with a header after a cross from the right. Dortmund opened up there. 7' Dortmund seeing plenty of the ball but Brugge look dangerous on the break. The early signs are that this game will have goals. 4' Witsel forced to block a shot on the edge of the box. An open start here. 2' Almost an early goal! A chance straight away for Dortmund as Matej Mitrovic sells Brugge keeper Karlo Letica short with a terrible back pass, allowing Reus in — but Letica does just enough to put Reus off. 1' KICK OFF! We're underway in Belgium. 20.55 The players are out and we're just about ready to go. 20.50 Dortmund are without a win in six away Champions League matches (D2 L4), since a 2-1 victory at Sporting in October 2016. But they have won on their last two visits to Belgium. 20.45 Dortmund have won only one of their last 11 UEFA Champions League fixtures (D3 L7), a 4-0 home success against Benfica in the 2016/17 round of 16 second leg. Dortmund fans have been starved of success in Europe in recent times. 20.35 Here's how Dortmund line up. Jadon Sancho, Mario Götze and Julian Weigl all start. 20.30 Good evening and welcome! The Champions League is back and Borussia Dortmund are looking to make a splash in the tournament having gone out in the group stage last season.