Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan landed in Berlin's Tegel airport around midday on Thursday to begin a controversial visit, decorated with full state honors, while thousands of demonstrators got ready to express their anger at the leader's authoritarian rule. Large parts of central Berlin were shut down for the trip, partly to provide a security cordon around the chancellery, the president's Bellevue palace, and the historic Adlon hotel, where Erdogan and his entourage are staying, and partly to make space for several major demos.The nature of the demos reflect the many human rights issues that Erdogan's long-term rule in Turkey have produced. Organizations representing journalists and various minorities in Turkey, including Kurds and Alevites, have called protests, while an alliance of left-wing organizations is staging a protest march through the city entitled "Erdogan Not Welcome," at which 10,000 people are expected. Read more: How Erdogan fills a political gap for German-Turks Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35YmG During the course of the three-day trip, Erdogan will have two meetings and a joint press conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He is also set to receive military honors at Berlin's Bellevue Palace, where he will be German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier's guest of honor at a state banquet on Friday evening. Erdogan is being accompanied by four senior cabinet ministers as well as secret service chief Hakan Fidan. Several opposition politicians have announced they will be boycotting the state banquet. On Saturday, Erdogan is  due to open a new mosque in Cologne built by the  Turkish-Islamic organization DITIB. The building was designed with glass walls and a staircase accessible from the street, symbolizing openness to people of all religions. It features two 55-meter (60-yard) minarets and a dome of glass and concrete which appears to open like a flower bud. The mosque is located in Cologne's Ehrenfeld district, a formerly a working-class quarter. Ehrenfeld suffered a rise in unemployment and poverty when factories closed in the 1970s. Some time later, however, low rent prices lured in artists, galleries and theaters, ultimately gentrifying the area. Today, 35 percent of locals there have an immigrant background. The construction was funded by hundreds of Muslim associations, but also bank loans and donations from the Turkish government's religious affairs authority in Germany, DITIB. Cologne city council approved the plans in 2008, despite Chancellor Angela Merkel's party, the conservative Christian Democrats, voting against it. Architect Paul Böhm, who specializes in building churches, won the contract in 2005. He saw the building as an act of integration. He later fell out with the new leadership of DITIB and stopped working on the project in 2011. The mosque first opened for prayer during Ramadan in 2017, but it has yet to be officially inaugurated. Inside the mosque, there's a prayer area which takes up both the ground and the upper floor, with the two sections connected by a well in the center of the building's glass front. The compound houses an Islamic library. There are also shops and sports facilities intended to foster interactions among people of different faiths. Some residents were shocked by the sheer size of the construction when the plans were first presented, especially the height of the minarets, and feared a change in the skyline of their "Christian city." Then-Cardinal Joachim Meisner, the archbishop of Cologne, admitted to having "an uneasy feeling" about the project. Right-wing politicians picked up on the sentiment and launched a heated debate about the integration of Muslims in Germany. Author Ralph Giordano said the mosque would be "an expression of the creeping Islamization" in the country. In 2017, German authorities launched an investigation into the activities of DITIB imams, who are schooled in Turkey and paid by the Turkish state, as well as other people working in the Cologne complex. Mosque employees were suspected of spying against Turks living in Germany on behalf of the Turkish goverment. Author: Rina Goldenberg Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.