The International Criminal Court (ICC) has launched a preliminary probe into the mass deportation of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar into Bangladesh.  The Hague-based court's preliminary examination will gather more evidence before deciding whether to launch a full investigation. Read more: Will Myanmar generals face ICC justice? Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said in a statement and video on Tuesday that she would examine reports of "alleged coercive acts having resulted in the forced displacement of the Rohingya people, including deprivation of fundamental rights, killing, sexual violence, enforced disappearance, destruction and looting." Myanmar's military has been accused of a brutal crackdown on Rohingya in Rakhine state that has sent more than 700,000 people fleeing to neighboring Bangladesh since August 2017. The decision to conduct a preliminary examination comes two weeks after judges at the court gave Bensouda permission to investigate Myanmar even though it is not a party to the Rome Statute, which established the ICC. Judges ruled Myanmar could be investigated because the case involves a border crossing from one state not adherent to the court, Myanmar, to one that does, Bangladesh. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33qoD 'Total disregard for civilian life': UN Bensouda's announcement came as UN investigators released a report reiterating earlier accusations that Myanmar's military may be responsible for "genocide" and other crimes against the stateless Rohingya. "It is hard to fathom the level of brutality of Tatmadaw operations, its total disregard for civilian life," Marzuki Darusman, the head of the UN fact-finding mission, told the UN Human Rights Council, referring to the nation's military. Read more: Myanmar military top brass involved in Rohingya atrocities: Amnesty International Darusman provided horrible details of massacres, looting and arson of villages, rape and torture allegedly committed by Myanmar security forces in Rakhine state. The UN investigators said the military's response to Rohingya insurgents who raided a border post last year has been "consistently and grossly disproportionate to actual security threats." An aerial view from September 2017 shows a burned Rohingya village near Maungdaw, north of Rakhine state Myanmar has called the report "one-sided" and "flawed." Myanmar recently emerged from a nearly a half-century of complete military rule with democratic elections that saw Aung San Suu Kyi become the nominal leader. The international reputation of the Nobel Peace Prize winner has been tarnished over her failure to condemn the military, which still maintains a tight grip over politics, the economy and security. The UN team said there could be no real democratic transition in Myanmar unless the military steps away from politics and the economy. Rohingya began fleeing Myanmar to Bangladesh decades ago, resulting in the Kutupalong refugee camp near the southeastern city, Cox’s Bazar. But the camp population has increased dramatically since August 2017 and additional camps have been set up. Almost a million people now live in Kutupalong – a city almost the size of Cologne, but lacking the infrastructure. International flags were flying at the entrance to the Kutupalong refugee camp during the World Cup. Among the many Brazilian and Argentinian flags were also occasional German ones. Soccer fever was alive in other parts of the camp and in surrounding villages as well. The young community journalists were there to cover it, adding a touch of joy even in a time of crisis. Coping with extreme weather conditions is one of the hardest challenges. Cyclones threaten the camp in the spring, torrential rains take over during the monsoon season. Community reporters of the “Palonger Hotha” program offer listeners vital information for survival. This includes where to find bamboo sticks to reinforce shelters, and areas that need to be evacuated due to potential mudslides. Another goal of the radio program is to strengthen the way people see themselves, by taking their daily lives seriously. The reporter team, made up of young Rohingyas and local Bangladeshis, asks families, for example, how their lives are affected when they have to huddle together for hours, due to the weather conditions. The reporters look for constructive ideas that can inspire the listeners. One reporter, Sajeda, reported on “hanging vegetable gardens”, where beans are planted as a way to increase the food supply despite limited space. The reporters also look at household remedies for curing illnesses that, due to hygiene issues, spread during the rainy season. How can children learn to remember their way home? What can they do to not get lost in the refugee camp? And what are the challenges facing the camp’s Learning Centers? Education for the refugee children is of special concern to the reporter, Iqbal. There are so far no real schools for the children. The refugee camp lies along the migration route for the Asian elephants. Several camp residents, however, were killed in early 2018 when they tried to chase the elephants away. In response, the United Nations held a seminar showing how people should act when elephants approach. “Palonger Hotha” reporters covered this for their program. Unlike the new refugees, locals know from experience how to react if approached by an elephant: stay calm, don’t move, and the elephant will walk away on its own. DW Akademie trainer Trainer Andrea Marshall and translator Romana Akther Shanta learned this in July, on their way to the production of the 12th radio show. Some local Bangladeshis have found work connected to the refugee camp, but also complain that food prices have risen in the region since the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya. Green hills have since been logged because the refugees need space and firewood. This is why it is so important that the community radio program also covers the views of locals. Working together with local trainer Mainul Khan, the “Palonger Hotha” team learns how to deal carefully with potentially sensitive topics. The program does not cover politics. On the other hand, the UNHCR’s “Smart Card”, that is supposed to facilitate the (voluntary) return to Myanmar but which many Rohingya find suspicious, is well reported on. Traumatic experiences also mark the first anniversary of the mass exodus that began August 25. But at the same time, many people say they are starting to face their trauma – slowly, step by step. Author: Andrea Marshall cw/cmk (AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.