Following the violent anti-immigrant protests in Chemnitz that were sparked by the fatal stabbing of a 35-year-old German man, thousands of counterdemonstrators came out in an act of defiance against right-wing groups. Read more: Chemnitz fact check: Were foreigners chased down during protests? On September 3, around 65,000 people from all over Germany attended an anti-racism concert with prominent German bands, and on September 7 about 5,000 people came to an open-air concert of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony at Chemnitz's Theaterplatz to protest xenophobia and violence. Christoph Dittrich, the director of the Chemnitz Theater, spoke with DW about how the city's cultural scene is confronting the events of the past few weeks. The demonstrations were sparked by a deadly brawl that broke out in the German city of Chemnitz in the early hours of Sunday (August 26). What started out as a war of words resulted in a 35-year-old man being stabbed to death. Hours later, spontaneous, anti-migrant protests took over the streets of Chemnitz. A German-Cuban man was stabbed in an altercation involving 10 people, several of whom were of "various nationalities," police sources said. The victim, named only as Daniel H., was apparently well-known among various political groups in the area. Two men in their 30s were also stabbed and seriously injured, and a 22-year-old Iraqi and 23-year-old Syrian are in custody over the killing. By Sunday afternoon, some 800 people had gathered to protest the man's death, including far-right groups. Authorities said the crowd was largely uncooperative and threw bottles at police officers. Police reinforcements had to be called in from nearby cities. The mobilizations were spontaneous and are thought to have surfaced following calls to demonstrate on social media. German authorities said that that far-right groups spread misinformation on the internet. Among the false claims was that the victim of the knife attack died protecting a woman. Thousands of far-right and counterdemonstrators faced off in a second day of protest Monday. Several people were injured as objects and fireworks were hurled. Video footage showed the far-right "Pro Chemnitz" movement holding a banner with a quote from early 20th century poet Anton Günther reading "German and free we aim to be." Counter-demonstrators denouncing right-wing extremism also took to the streets of Chemnitz. Among the protesters were Antifa, who clashed with right-wing demonstrators. Author: Louisa Wright DW: How much damage has been done to the city's image in recent days?  Christoph Dittrich: I have to speak bluntly: this has been a huge damage to the city's image. Perhaps that phrase is not even strong enough. The images of Chemnitz that have gone around the world are already having tangible effects. We've heard of companies that don't want to allow their foreign employees to travel to Chemnitz any longer, of doctors who were about to take up positions in the hospitals and who aren't coming now. 'Culture is an appeal to humanity and against racism and extremism': Dittrich It's a terrible situation, quite unlike ordinary daily life in Chemnitz. Our experience here is one of good solidarity and coexistence. The Technical University has the highest percentage of foreign students of all the universities in Saxony. The local industries are hungry for the workers who come here from abroad. What was your experience after the riots? Within a few days following the weekend of August 26, an incredible force had sprung up — the motivation not to leave things like this, but to present a different image of the city and really do something for society. For example: making sure the discussion stays open, so people can really articulate their fears and worries, but not of course by rioting on the streets. Standing next to extremists giving the Nazi salute is just completely unacceptable. It fills us with sadness that someone was killed. The way this crime was then instrumentalized, in such a short space of time, and the fact that it ended up with foreigners being threatened is still a shock and a big worry for the city. Read more: Chemnitz and Kandel: How hashtags shape German politics What role does culture have to play in dealing with right-wing extremism? For one thing, culture is always an appeal to humanity and against racism and extremism — a force inherent in all art. Also, we now have an even greater need for cultural offerings that enable audience participation. That could mean citizen theaters, or specific formats that really facilitate a conversation in the theater's cultural forum. What culture can also do is connect people via national and international networks. Straight away, we got so many calls from artist colleagues from all over Germany. That interest underscores the fact this is a task for the whole of society; it's not only about Chemnitz. More than 65,000 people turned out for the #wirsindmehr (literally "we are more") concert in Chemnitz to protest against neo-Nazi violence. Speaking at the start of the show, organizers said they wanted to show there was "no place in Chemnitz for Nazis." The lineup included a mix of local Chemnitz bands and was headlined by one of Germany's most famous punk bands. The concert came after days of far-right anti-migrant protests took hold of the eastern German city following the death of a 35-year-old German man. Daniel H. was stabbed to death in the early hours of Agust 25, allegedly by a Syrian and an Iraqi national. Punters waved colorful signs with messages of welcome and love as they walked into the concert. The show opened with a minute of silence in honor of Daniel H., while volunteers collected donations to be split between the victim's family and anti-racism initiatives in Chemnitz. The line-up catered for what was a mostly young crowd, with acts including punk act Feine Sahne Fischfilet, rappers Trettman and Marteria & Casper, and indie rockers Kraftklub. "We're not naive. We're not laboring under the illusion that you hold a concert and the world is saved," said Kraftklub singer Felix Brummer. But it's "important to show that you're not alone," he added. One of Germany's most famous punk bands, Die Toten Hosen, headlined the show. "This is not about the fight between right and left, it's about basic decency," said lead singer Campino. "And it is very important to stop this conduct while it is a snowball and before it becomes an avalanche," he added. Can you learn from other cities with similar problems? We can learn a great deal from the experience of Dresden, among others. But we're not starting from scratch in Chemnitz, either. Take the example of Chemnitz Peace Day, when we commemorate the destruction of the city on March 5, 1945. For many years right-wing extremists tried to misuse the city as a venue for marches on that day. We succeeded in preventing this, thanks to the collaboration of many groups from the fields of sport, education, culture and business. We already have excellent networks here that will now need to be reactivated. A long time before the rioting in Chemnitz, the city decided to put itself forward to be the European Capital of Culture 2025. How did that come about? The title of European Capital of Culture isn't meant to be a beauty contest. It's much more about strengthening a sense of pride and the experience of cultural coexistence. The city of Chemnitz doesn't have a baroque town center like Dresden, for example. It was always an industrial town without much prestige. Everything we have here — the opera house, the town hall, the Technical University — they're all institutions that were created by the will of the citizens. Despite all the disruptions caused by wars and by the fall of the Berlin Wall, after which 60,000 people left this city and created big gaps that needed to be filled, the people here have always got back on their feet and shaped their city themselves. Emerging from disruption, finding the positive energy to create an open cultural society of their own design — that's a story we'd like to analyze and continue, one we'd like to tell in Europe. This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34QRL