Sweden's center-left and center-right blocs emerged neck-and-neck after Sunday's election. The far-right Sweden Democrats made significant gains to hold third place. The parliamentary election was one of Sweden's most important because the the far-right, anti-immigration Sweden Democrats — who rose from the white supremacist and neo-Nazi fringe — were expected to gain significant strength and change the landscape of Swedish politics.  Read more: Sweden's general election results in stalemate as far-right support surges Neck-and-neck This election is unlikely to pan out well for Prime Minister Stefan Lofven. His Social Democrats have dominated Swedish politics since the 1930s and effectively built up the country's welfare state. Now, however, the SAP is expected to record a low score. Lofven has been attacked by the right for his open-door migrant policy, and from the left for later slamming that door shut. Ulf Kristersson's Moderates will be battling with the far-right Sweden Democrats for popularity this year and could fall to third place. Kristersson's stance towards the far-right remains ambiguous: while he has ruled out cooperating with them, he has stopped short of labeling them as racist. On policy, the party has remained true to its name, focusing mainly on law and order, and job creation. In 2014, the far-right Sweden Democrats saw a monumental rise in support, taking 13 percent of the vote. This year, the party is tipped to take as much as 20 percent and could finish second ahead of the Moderates. The SD's popularity is largely due to rising anti-migrant sentiment (Sweden took in over 160,000 asylum seekers in 2015) and Akesson's efforts cleanse the party of its neo-Nazi roots. Despite finishing a disappointing fourth in 2014, Sweden's Greens entered the government in a minority coalition with the SAP. But a series of crises since have seen support erode. Education Minister Gustav Fridolin became the youngest MP in Swedish history back in 2002, when he was elected aged 19. Isabella Lovin, minister for international development, has enjoyed a career in politics and media. Sweden's Center Party emerged from the country's Farmers' League, and while agriculture and environment remain key polices, Annie Loof has emerged as the party's hope to attract urban and more progressive voters. Its strategy is paying off, a survey published last year put the Center Party at 11.3 percent — its highest polling in 27 years. Left Party chief Jonas Sjostedt, a former metal worker and union leader, is a political veteran on the left. After serving in the European Parliament from 1995-2006, Sjostedt returned to Swedish politics and was elected to parliament in 2010 before becoming party leader two years later. The Left Party acts as a force against privatization and supports higher taxes to fund Sweden's welfare state. A former army major, Liberal Party leader Jan Bjorklund has adopted a fighting yet disciplined approach to politics. The results have been mixed; its social reforms around education and equality have been received well, but its calls to expand the military and join NATO have mostly fallen on deaf ears. As a result, the Liberals have failed to capitalize on the Moderates' falling polling numbers. Sweden's Christian Democrats have struggled to attract wide support, despite attempts to distance itself from religious roots. Meanwhile, the party's increasingly harsh tone towards migration appears to have alienated more voters with Christian values than it has drawn in new ones. The Christian Democrats are expected to barely scrape past the 4 percent threshold needed to enter parliament. Author: David Martin Read more: Opinion: The far-right twist in the Swedish fairytale Cold shoulder for the far right "Voters made the Social Democrats Sweden's biggest party," Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said. "We need a cross-bloc cooperation." He said he would stay in his post for the next fortnight until the new parliament opens. Parliamentary group leader Anders Ygeman said "it could take weeks, maybe even months," before Sweden has a government in place. "The Alliance will not govern or discuss how to form a government with the Sweden Democrats," said Ulf Kristersson, head of the Moderates. "In some sense we're happy the Sweden Democrats didn't grow more than they did," said the Liberal Party lawmaker Allan Widman. Meanwhile far-right leaders in Austria, Italy and France hailed the Sweden Democrats' results. "Sweden, birthplace of multiculturalism and model for the left, has finally decided to change after years of wild, uncontrolled immigration," Italy's far-right interior minister, Matteo Salvini, said on Twitter. Breaking with traditions The opposition Alliance bloc — comprised of the Moderates, Centre, Liberals and Christian Democrats — scored 40.3 percent of the Sunday's vote. It would achieve a majority if it were to team up with the Sweden Democrats, however the Centre and Liberals would likely not agree to join with the far-right. Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson invited the other two parties to formal negotiations, but was rejected. The left-wing governing bloc — made up of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party — emerged with 40.6 percent of the vote. The bloc's leader, Prime Minister Stefan Lofven, also refused to cooperate with the far right. What happens next? Analysts said that it will be difficult to form a stable government without some kind of support from the Sweden Democrats unless the blocs break away from their traditional alliances. Parliament opens on September 25. If the prime minister is ousted after a mandatory vote on whether to replace him, the speaker is permitted to give a maximum of four PM candidates the opportunity to form a government. If they all fail, fresh elections will be called. kw/rc (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.