The International Criminal Court on Thursday ruled the court has jurisdiction to investigate allegations that Myanmar military forces drove the Rohingya people from their homes into neighboring Bangladesh. "The Court has jurisdiction over the crime against humanity of deportation allegedly committed against members of the Rohingya people," the ICC statement said. At least 700,000 people from the Muslim minority group have fled Myanmar's from northern Rakhine state following a brutal military crackdown in August last year. Read more: Solving Rohingya crisis will require 'international pressure' The court's decision was justified because the case involves a border crossing from one state not adherent to the court, Myanmar, to one that does, Bangladesh, the statement said. The court said that prosecutor Fatou Bensouda must take the jurisdiction ruling into account "as she continues with her preliminary examination concerning the crimes reportedly committed against the Rohingya people." The probe aims to determine if there is sufficient evidence to launch a full investigation. While Bensouda has not formally announced a preliminary examination, the judges said in their ruling that prosecutors' work so far on the Rohingya issue serves that purpose. Rohingya began fleeing Myanmar to Bangladesh decades ago, resulting in the Kutupalong refugee camp near the southeastern city, Cox’s Bazar. But the camp population has increased dramatically since August 2017 and additional camps have been set up. Almost a million people now live in Kutupalong – a city almost the size of Cologne, but lacking the infrastructure. International flags were flying at the entrance to the Kutupalong refugee camp during the World Cup. Among the many Brazilian and Argentinian flags were also occasional German ones. Soccer fever was alive in other parts of the camp and in surrounding villages as well. The young community journalists were there to cover it, adding a touch of joy even in a time of crisis. Coping with extreme weather conditions is one of the hardest challenges. Cyclones threaten the camp in the spring, torrential rains take over during the monsoon season. Community reporters of the “Palonger Hotha” program offer listeners vital information for survival. This includes where to find bamboo sticks to reinforce shelters, and areas that need to be evacuated due to potential mudslides. Another goal of the radio program is to strengthen the way people see themselves, by taking their daily lives seriously. The reporter team, made up of young Rohingyas and local Bangladeshis, asks families, for example, how their lives are affected when they have to huddle together for hours, due to the weather conditions. The reporters look for constructive ideas that can inspire the listeners. One reporter, Sajeda, reported on “hanging vegetable gardens”, where beans are planted as a way to increase the food supply despite limited space. The reporters also look at household remedies for curing illnesses that, due to hygiene issues, spread during the rainy season. How can children learn to remember their way home? What can they do to not get lost in the refugee camp? And what are the challenges facing the camp’s Learning Centers? Education for the refugee children is of special concern to the reporter, Iqbal. There are so far no real schools for the children. The refugee camp lies along the migration route for the Asian elephants. Several camp residents, however, were killed in early 2018 when they tried to chase the elephants away. In response, the United Nations held a seminar showing how people should act when elephants approach. “Palonger Hotha” reporters covered this for their program. Unlike the new refugees, locals know from experience how to react if approached by an elephant: stay calm, don’t move, and the elephant will walk away on its own. DW Akademie trainer Trainer Andrea Marshall and translator Romana Akther Shanta learned this in July, on their way to the production of the 12th radio show. Some local Bangladeshis have found work connected to the refugee camp, but also complain that food prices have risen in the region since the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya. Green hills have since been logged because the refugees need space and firewood. This is why it is so important that the community radio program also covers the views of locals. Working together with local trainer Mainul Khan, the “Palonger Hotha” team learns how to deal carefully with potentially sensitive topics. The program does not cover politics. On the other hand, the UNHCR’s “Smart Card”, that is supposed to facilitate the (voluntary) return to Myanmar but which many Rohingya find suspicious, is well reported on. Traumatic experiences also mark the first anniversary of the mass exodus that began August 25. But at the same time, many people say they are starting to face their trauma – slowly, step by step. Author: Andrea Marshall Evidence piles up The ICC's ruling comes after the UN's top human rights body said Myanmar military leaders should be prosecuted for genocide against Rohingya Muslims. The UN investigators' report also found rape and sexual violence were part of a deliberate strategy to intimidate, terrorize or punish a civilian population, and were used as a tactic of war. The Rohingya's mass exodus to Bangladesh was the aftermath of a series of coordinated attacks on Myanmar police posts in western Rakhine State by an underground Rohingya insurgent group. This led the military to launch the violent crackdown on the Rohingya people on August 25 last year. Read more: Myanmar's Rohingya rebels - What you need to know The Rohingya have faced persecution in Buddhist-majority Myanmar for decades, despite their families having lived there for generations. When military rule began in the country in 1962, the situation worsened and government campaigns saw thousands of Rohingya pushed into neighboring Bangladesh. A new citizenship law passed in 1982 identified 135 national ethnic groups, but the Rohingya were not included, rendering them stateless. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33lgm law/kl (AFP, AP, dpa)