Ryanair will cancel 150 flights scheduled Friday due cabin crew strikes across Europe, the budget airline said Wednesday. The Ireland-based carrier said six percent of its 2,400 daily flights would be scrapped due to 24-hour walkouts in Italy, Portugal, Spain, the Netherlands and Belgium over pay and conditions. In Germany, the Verdi union that represents about 1,000 cabin crew said it would hold rallies in Berlin and Frankfurt on Friday. The German union said discussions about whether to participate in walkout were continuing and a final decision would be made on Thursday. Some 30,000 passengers will be affected by the strike on Friday. Ryanair has described workers' action as "unnecessary," pointing to "significant progress in recent weeks with our union negotiations ... in Ireland, UK, Italy and Germany," the airline said in a statement on Tuesday. Read more: To fly or not to fly? The environmental cost of air travel The airline had previously said 190 flights would be impacted by the strikes and all affected customers had been given three days notice of the cancellations. Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, said the airline apologized for the strikes, "which we have done our utmost to avoid, given that we have already offered these unions recognition agreements, Collective Labour Agreements, and a move to local contracts/law in 2019." "We hope these unions will see common sense and work with us to finalize agreements for the benefit of our pilots and cabin crew over the coming weeks without further disrupting our customers or our flights," Jacobs said. Staff at Ryanair have long been in conflict with the company over its practice of hiring under Irish labor law. On Wednesday, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary met with EU Employment Commissioner Marianne Thyssen about labor conditions at the low-cost airline. Thyssen called upon O'Leary to "ensure full compliance with all applicable EU rules and legislation, as it is the case for all EU airline companies," commission spokesman Margaritis Schinas said. "Respecting EU law is not something over which workers should have to negotiate, nor is it something which can be done differently from country to country. I made this very clear to Mr O'Leary today," Thyssen said in a statement. "I am not against Ryanair or against the low-cost business model. But with great success also comes great responsibility," she added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32vqZ New contract for Italy crew Earlier Tuesday, Ryanair also announced it had signed a new contract with its cabin crew in Italy, which would begin on October 1 and run for three years. The Dublin-based airline agreed to the terms of the contract in mid-September with the FIT CISL, ANPAC and ANPAV unions, and it includes an increase in wages under a new compensation structure. But other Italian trade unions that did not participate in the negotiations have criticized the contract and called for an emergency meeting with Labor Minister Luigi Di Maio. Ryanair said in July that it planned to have annual passenger growth of 7 percent to reach 139 million passengers in the year to March 2019, and another 9 percent growth to 152 million by March 2020. Strikes by Ryanair pilots and cabin crew across Europe resulted in the cancellation of hundreds of flights this summer. Planes powered with renewable energy don't produce CO2 or other climate-damaging emissions such as nitrogen oxide and particles. They are smaller, lighter and more efficient than planes powered by kerosene. The Alpha Electro from the Slovenian start-up Pipistrel is already proving this since 2015, when it had its maiden flight. Most companies and scientists see the future of electric planes in regional transport. The Israeli start-up Eviation plans to revolutionize commuting with their nine-seater. The prototype Alice can fly for up to 650 miles (1,000 kilometers), and will take to the sky in 2019 for the first time, according to the company. The flying taxi of the German company Lilium had its first successful flight in April 2017. The five-seater can take off and land vertically, has a reach of 190 miles and travels from London to Paris in just an hour. The goal of the company is for people to one day be able to order their flying cab via app for the price of a regular taxi ride. Some plane manufacturers don't dare go all-electric just yet. In November 2017, Airbus, Rolls-Royce and Siemens announced they will jointly develop a commercial hybrid-electric prototype. The e-Fan X will be powered by three gas turbines and one electric motor. The companies aim to replace a second gas turbine with another electric motor at a later stage. A prototype is anticipated to fly in 2020. As part of British budget airliner EasyJet's plans to become more climate-friendly, it has entered into a cooperation with the United States startup Wright Electric. The goal is to develop a completely electric-powered plane for up to 150 passengers. It's not known yet when we can expect to see a first prototype. Experts believe that we could be flying in electric planes within 20 years. Various prototypes companies are working on have a range of a 155 to 650 miles. But technology is developing at an ever-faster pace. Who knows? One day, we might be able to travel around the world in emission-free planes completely powered by renewable energy. There's hope for all environmentally conscious travel addicts! Author: Katharina Wecker law/cmk AFP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.