The glory days for social democracy are drawing to a close in Sweden. Granted, the party that dominated for decades and blessed the populace with an unparalleled welfare state did not fall as far as anticipated. Neither did the far-right Sweden Democrats surge as high as pollsters predicted. But — parallel to experiences in other European countries — the inexorable rise of the far-right in Sweden was accompanied by excessive media coverage that implied the extremists had been catapulted into government. Just like in other countries, the majority of voters cast their ballots against the populists and their poisonous rhetoric. The end of Sweden's special status Many Swedes are concerned with their country's new-found path. The Scandinavian role model presented an image of a humanitarian superpower for so long. Now it finds itself more like the rest of European politics. Sweden appeared to be above the fray of national self-interest, confrontation and xenophobia. The country's far-right populists have shown that these sentiments were simply lurking beneath the surface. Swedes are by no means better people; they, too, are plagued by the insecurity and fear so easily converted into hatred. DW's Barbara Wesel The election results also show up as nonsense the theory that the have-nots and an economically-troubled underclass bolster the new right wing. Sweden enjoys solid economic growth, low unemployment and a functioning social welfare system. The gap between rich and poor has widened somewhat, however, which some Swedes see as an affront to their right to a peaceful and secure life. Blame for this landed quickly at the door of migrants. The Sweden Democrats' success is down to the insecurity they sow in voters' minds. They thrive off exclusion and preach a brand of Swedish nationalism that, while antiquated and rather laughable, is highly effective. They sing from the same hymn sheet as their brethren elsewhere in Europe, like the Alternative for Germany (AfD). Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34b11 Reestablishing the establishment Sweden's established parties will need to relinquish their all-too comfortable lives and sharpen their political profiles. They need a new leadership style because the existing one of the inconspicuous union member next door isn't working anymore. The TV debate before the election, which the charismatic populist Jimmie Akesson owned, made that clear. Social democrats and conservatives need to do away with soulless bureaucrats in favor of high-profile leaders who can pull at voters' heartstrings. Moreover, the existing center-left and right blocks need to bite the bullet and find common democratic ground on which to build new coalitions. A new era It remains to be seen if Sweden's conservatives and social democrats are capable of such political discretion and maturity. Their immediate post-election statements would suggest not. However, the future of their parties and their country as a stable democracy depend on it. Regardless, Sweden is in for a new era; the Bullerby idealism is over. Politicians and citizens alike must learn how to openly deal with social conflict. Above all else, they have to counter the poison of right-wing populism with their own vision of a modern Sweden. Sad to say, but liberal Sweden has gone the way of other countries: Full of doubt, insecurity and in search of a safe space in a dangerous and confusing world. This election is unlikely to pan out well for Prime Minister Stefan Lofven. His Social Democrats have dominated Swedish politics since the 1930s and effectively built up the country's welfare state. Now, however, the SAP is expected to record a low score. Lofven has been attacked by the right for his open-door migrant policy, and from the left for later slamming that door shut. Ulf Kristersson's Moderates will be battling with the far-right Sweden Democrats for popularity this year and could fall to third place. Kristersson's stance towards the far-right remains ambiguous: while he has ruled out cooperating with them, he has stopped short of labeling them as racist. On policy, the party has remained true to its name, focusing mainly on law and order, and job creation. In 2014, the far-right Sweden Democrats saw a monumental rise in support, taking 13 percent of the vote. This year, the party is tipped to take as much as 20 percent and could finish second ahead of the Moderates. The SD's popularity is largely due to rising anti-migrant sentiment (Sweden took in over 160,000 asylum seekers in 2015) and Akesson's efforts cleanse the party of its neo-Nazi roots. Despite finishing a disappointing fourth in 2014, Sweden's Greens entered the government in a minority coalition with the SAP. But a series of crises since have seen support erode. Education Minister Gustav Fridolin became the youngest MP in Swedish history back in 2002, when he was elected aged 19. Isabella Lovin, minister for international development, has enjoyed a career in politics and media. Sweden's Center Party emerged from the country's Farmers' League, and while agriculture and environment remain key polices, Annie Loof has emerged as the party's hope to attract urban and more progressive voters. Its strategy is paying off, a survey published last year put the Center Party at 11.3 percent — its highest polling in 27 years. Left Party chief Jonas Sjostedt, a former metal worker and union leader, is a political veteran on the left. After serving in the European Parliament from 1995-2006, Sjostedt returned to Swedish politics and was elected to parliament in 2010 before becoming party leader two years later. The Left Party acts as a force against privatization and supports higher taxes to fund Sweden's welfare state. A former army major, Liberal Party leader Jan Bjorklund has adopted a fighting yet disciplined approach to politics. The results have been mixed; its social reforms around education and equality have been received well, but its calls to expand the military and join NATO have mostly fallen on deaf ears. As a result, the Liberals have failed to capitalize on the Moderates' falling polling numbers. Sweden's Christian Democrats have struggled to attract wide support, despite attempts to distance itself from religious roots. Meanwhile, the party's increasingly harsh tone towards migration appears to have alienated more voters with Christian values than it has drawn in new ones. The Christian Democrats are expected to barely scrape past the 4 percent threshold needed to enter parliament. Author: David Martin Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.