Never before have so many high-ranking Western politicians traveled to Macedonia's capital, Skopje, than in the past few weeks. Their shared mission: to support the country's government ahead of this Sunday's historic referendum, when Macedonians will get to vote on whether their country should become the Republic of North Macedonia — and whether they support eventual membership in the European Union and NATO.  The referendum has drawn much interest from both the West and the Kremlin. On a visit to Skopje last week, US Secretary of Defense James Mattis accused Russia of attempting to manipulate the outcome. He is convinced that Moscow provided funds to support a "broad campaign to influence" the people of Macedonia ahead of the crucial vote. Read more: Macedonian PM Zoran Zaev: EU accession talks a 'historic decision' Moscow, which is not in favor of Macedonia joining the EU and NATO, has denied the accusation. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has accused Western leaders of meddling in Macedonia's domestic affairs by supporting the June agreement that aims to settle the long-standing name dispute between Macedonia and Greece. Over the summer, Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev accused Greek-Russian businessman Ivan Savvidis of bankrolling certain political movements to foment turmoil and violence in his country in order to manipulate public opinion. And in July, Greece expelled two Russian diplomats who were blamed for trying to undermine the name agreement. How the name dispute began When what is known today as Macedonia emerged from the former Yugoslavia as an independent state in 1991, it was drawn into a fierce dispute over its name with Greece. Athens feared that by choosing Macedonia, the country was signaling its territorial ambitions on the Greek province of the same name, birthplace of the ancient warrior king Alexander the Great. Since then, Athens has blocked Skopje's moves to join the EU and NATO. Yet in June, Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and his Macedonian counterpart Zaev finally reached an agreement regarding the name dispute: Macedonia would rename itself the Republic of North Macedonia, and Greece would drop its objections to Macedonia joining the Western alliances. And if the country's citizens decide to sanction the new name on Sunday, the path toward NATO and EU membership will be set. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/317qT Strong economic ties with Europe Dusan Reljic, of the Berlin-based German Institute for International and Security Affairs (SWP), said the EU — and Germany in particular — account for 80 percent of Macedonia's trade relationships. He says German companies have invested heavily in Macedonian auto parts manufacturers, while most oil refineries and steel mills are owned by British and Greek companies. "The region is deeply integrated with the EU in economic and political terms, and in many other regards, too," said Reljic. "Macedonia has only a few economic ties to Russia." Russia's concern, he told DW, is not connected to economics but instead lie with NATO: Russia feels threatened by what it sees as NATO trying to expand its sphere of influence. Dmitry Zhuravlev, director of Russian Institute of Regional Problems, shares this view. According to Zhuravlev, Macedonia joining the EU does not really concern Moscow. But a possible NATO membership worries the Kremlin because Russia "lacks an alliance of its own." Zhuravlev said Russia sees "the NATO expansion as an attempt to tilt the balance of power." Reljic said Macedonia's possible membership in NATO and, eventually, the EU is important for the West. "Macedonia is divided along ethnic lines: at least one-third of the country are Albanians, and the vast majority are Macedonian Slavs. "The large Albanian minority lives along Macedonia's border with Kosovo and Albania, which are home to Albanians," he said. "Creating a large Albanian state in the region" would not only destabilize Macedonia but the entire region. "The West hopes that if Macedonia joins NATO, it will bring much needed stability to the area." For decades Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) had a contentious relationship over the name. When Yugoslavia broke up Macedonia declared its independence and took the name Republic of Macedonia, Greece objected as its northern region is also called Macedonia. In 2018, the two countries settled the dispute and Macedonia is now known as The Republic of Nothern Macedonia. The Irish have long had a contentious relationship with the United Kingdom. While Ireland was for centuries part of the UK, the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 gave Ireland complete independence in its home affairs but an opt-out clause allowed Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom. The islands in the southern Atlantic have had French, British, Spanish and Argentinian settlements. The British refer to the archipelago as the Falkland Islands and reasserted its rule over them in 1833. Argentina maintains that the islands are called the Islas Malvinas and are a part of its territory. In 1982, Argentina invaded the islands until a British force retook the territories. The small group of islands controlled by Japan in the East China Sea has long been a sore point between Japan and China. China claims it discovered what it calls the Diaoyu islands in the 14th century. After World War II, the US administered the island but returned control to Japan in 1972. With the discovery of oil reserves in 1968, ownership is now once again an issue. Author: Andy Valvur Worries over low voter turnout Recent opinion polls have indicated that 57 percent of Macedonians are in favor of EU and NATO membership. But one week ahead of the crucial vote, Macedonian President Gjorge Ivanov spoke out against the referendum, calling the June agreement between Athens and Skopje a "flagrant violation of sovereignty." Opposition politicians have also urged voters to boycott Sunday's vote. The New York Times has reported that up to 40 Facebook pages have popped up daily calling on Macedonians to abstain from voting in the referendum. The newspaper wrote that Western diplomats suspect Russia is bankrolling this anti-referendum campaign. Reljic believes the final outcome of Sunday's vote could be a close call. "Fifty percent of those eligible to vote will have to turn up; that's 900,000 voters." Macedonia has a population of just 2 million, of which a sizable number live abroad. "The biggest challenge for Prime Minister Zaev will be ensuring the referendum quorum is met," he said. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.