"Parents, shield the eyes of your children! Virgins: Pay attention!" John Barry clearly enjoys presenting his invention to a wide audience. It's a penis-function test that anyone can perform at home with little effort, expertise or expense. All you need is a ring of stamps and perhaps a little imagination. It was as far back as 1979 when Barry first invented the test, with two fellow physicians, Bruce Blank and Michel Boileau. And now — almost 40 years later — the three Americans have been awarded the Ig Nobel Prize for Reproductive Medicine. It's a parody Nobel Prize that honors achievements in science "that make you laugh and then think." "Our test reveals whether, when a man sleeps, he has normal erections or not," Barry tells DW. Barry is awarded the Ig Nobel Prize 38 years after he published a paper on his invention A man has anywhere from one to five erections each night. It happens automatically when he dreams — "regardless of the content of the dreams." Men who don't have spontaneous erections during sleep probably have a physical problem, Barry says. "They may have diabetes or a hardening of the arteries." But if the penis does function properly during sleep and only fails when … others would be aroused, the problem is in the man's mind. The stamps can apparently help determine which it is — a physical or psychological problem. This is how it works Take several stamps separated by perforation, wrap them once around your penis and glue the two ends together. If you're using "old-fashioned" stamps, lick the ends to make them stick together, and for non-sticking stamps, use a small piece of adhesive tape, Barry advises. In an interview with DW, the three Ig Laureates demonstrate the test using two of my fingers as a substitute for a penis. "Now, you have to imagine that during an erection the penis not only gets longer, but also thicker," Bruce Blank kindly points out. And it's the thickness that the ring of stamps breaks open, most likely at one of the perforated seams. The evaluation process in the morning is simple: Check to see whether the ring of stamps is broken. Four stamps for an average penis Presenting his penis-function test at his Ig Nobel Prize lecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge, Barry shows drawings of a penis wrapped in a ring of stamps — and the audience bursts into laughter. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34sCP "The average Caucasian penis only needs four stamps," says Barry, answering a question from the audience. And, no, the motifs on the stamps are irrelevant, as is the question of who licks the stamps before putting them onto the penis. At the end of the 1970s, there was only one way to test a man's potency. It involved a mercury strain gauge. A band was wrapped around the penis and a machine registered whether the "member" expanded or not. The test cost US$500 (€424) and lasted three hours. "Our test costs only 12 cents for three consecutive nights," Barry says — if you use one cent postage stamps, that is. Stamps are better than fishing line So, what's the patients' compliance like? Excellent, says Blank. "They want to find out whether the problem is in their head or in their penis, and what therapy can help them," Blank says. "So they weren't too shocked when we introduced this test." Before they settled on postage stamps, the researchers also experimented with adhesive tape and fishing lines. But the latter in particular, was "quite uncomfortable." One question remains and that is why they were only awarded the Ig Nobel Prize now, 38 years after they published a paper on their test. Barry explains it this way: "It stood the test of time." The stamp test has been cited in Playboy magazine and in the TV series "Sex & the City" — so it's got to be worth an award, right? The Ig-Nobel-Prize is a pun on the word ignoble. In the past, entries tackled questions such as: When bitten by insects - where on the human body are the bites most painful? Or: Is it really possible that Sultan Mulai Ismail fathered 888 children between 1697 and 1727? One Australian scientist was even awarded the prize for "unboiling" an egg. One essential question for humankind and our four-legged friends: How long does it take to urinate? A team led by U.S. researcher Patricia Yang found the answer: 21 seconds plus or minus 13 seconds. In previous years the prize was awarded to related research… Dogs align themselves with the earth's magnetic field when doing number twos. Czech researchers observed 70 canines from 37 breeds. The answer: The preferred direction is along the north-south axis. That got them the Ig Nobel Prize for Biology in 2014. In 2011, the Ig Nobel Prize in Psychology went to researchers of cognitive biology from Vienna University. They wanted to find out if yawning is contagious among red-legged tortoises. While humans often find yawning to be contagious, the research group found that that's not the case among tortoises. The study was published in "Current Zoology." The winners of the Physics award in 2014 came from the Kitasato University in Japan. They looked into the friction-coefficient of banana peel on linoleum floor. The result: polysaccharide follicular gel in the banana peel does indeed perform a lubricating function. In regular English, that banana peels are really slippery - ouch! In 2014, the prize in the Public Health category went to researchers looking into the correlation between cat bites and depression. The scientists had analyzed patient data and concluded that among women who had been treated for cat bites, there was a significant increase in cases of depression. The recommendation: next time your cat bites you, better see a shrink! The 2013 prize for Security Engineering went to the inventor of a fully automated hijacker disposal device. The culprit falls into a trap, gets bundled up as a handy package by a wrapping machine and then dropped out of the plane on a parachute. This would save the police SWAT-team a lot of work in cases like the hijacking of the German plane "Landshut" in Mogadishu in 1977. People who believe they've seen Jesus on a slice of bread or on a tortilla - such news hit the media time and again. Neurologists from China and Canada found out what happens inside the brain when we are recognizing faces in places where there usually are none. What they found was a whole network of brain-sections responsible for face-recognition. This got them the 2014 prize for Neurology. In 2013 there was a joint prize for biology and astronomy: An international team found out that dung beetles looked to the shining light of the Milky Way for orientation when the moon was absent. When the sky was clear, the beetles were able to walk a straight line. As soon as the sky was overcast they lost all sense of direction. The 2010 Engineering award went to the American inventors of a special drone for whale-watching. But the drone that was used to fly closely over the whales' heads also had another task: whale smelling. The breath coming out of the animals' nostrils includes bacteria, the amount of which marine biologists are measuring. Beautiful pictures like this one were a by-product of the research. Author: Fabian Schmidt/ cb