Prince, who to the shock of his many fans worldwide died two years ago, would have celebrated his 60th birthday this June. Now, for all of 35 minutes, he is back, sitting at the piano and playing music, back in the early 1980s. Listening to the tracks, it is easy to imagine lounging in a comfortable chair, reading a book while Prince sings and tinkers on the piano. It sounds as if he were all by himself, very relaxed, raw and intimate. Of course he is not playing in his living room, but in in a studio, where occasionally, sound engineer Don Batts gave the artist brief instructions during the recording, for instance to lower his voice. Start of a career Some of the songs recorded in this 1983 session became world hits, including "Purple Rain," which many see as the best song of all times, and "17 Days," which was the B-side of When Doves Cry. Album cover of "Piano & A Microphone 1983" He covered Joni Mitchell's "A Case of You," and the track "StrangeRelationship" appeared on the album Sign O' The Times in 1987. The first single from the new album, "Mary Don't You Weep," released on June 7, Prince's birthday, is a song that shows the artist's incredibly wide range of vocal range and pitch. The song takes the listener on a roller-coaster ride of moods and right into Prince's passionate universe. Other songs, including "Cold Coffee & Cocaine," were never previously released, so fans can look forward to unfamiliar tracks as well as quite a few private, previously unpublished photos of the artist. Workaholic Prince is said to have written more than 1,000 songs, many of them under pseudonyms and many of which have yet to be released. Prince left no will, so legal issues had to be clarified before the release of Piano & A Microphone 1983. Prince's sister and five half brothers and sisters were declared the heirs to his estate and they have been careful with new releases. Two best-of compilations were released posthumously so far. This newly released album is a true gem — intimate, playful and soulful songs by a musical genius who wasn't aware at that point that he'd one day become one of the world's top icons of pop. Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on June 7, 1958. He had a strong interest in music early on and is said to have written his first song at the age of seven. At 20, he released his debut album, "For You," in 1978. His 1979 album "Prince" went platinum due to the success of the singles "Why You Wanna Treat Me So Bad?" and "I Wanna Be Your Lover." His next three records, "Dirty Mind" (1980), "Controversy" (1981), and "1999" (1982), continued his success and established Prince's trademark of blatantly sexual lyrics and incorporation of funk, dance, and rock music elements. In 1984, he named his backup band The Revolution and released "Purple Rain," which served as the soundtrack to his film debut - to date one of his most famous songs. In 1986, Prince directed and starred as a gigolo named Christopher Tracy in the musical drama film, "Under the Cherry Moon." Despite the film's poor performance and many Golden Raspberry Awards, the soundtrack album was critically praised as Prince's finest record yet. "Kiss" hit number one on the Billboard chart and "Mountains" reached number 23. After releasing the albums "Around the World in a Day" (1985) and "Parade" (1986), The Revolution disbanded and Prince released several solo albums before debuting The New Power Generation band in 1991. He changed his stage name in 1993 to an unpronounceable symbol, which became known as the "Love Symbol." In 2000, he began referring to himself as "Prince" again. Prince was romantically linked to many celebrities, including Kim Basinger, Madonna and Carmen Electra. In 1996, he married his 22-year-old backup singer and dancer Mayte Garcia (pictured). They had a son named Boy Gregory in October, who died shortly after birth due to the Pfeiffer syndrome. Two years after their divorce, Prince married Manuela Testolini; she filed for divorce in May 2006. Prince sold over 100 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling artists of all time. He won seven Grammy Awards, a Golden Globe Award, and an Academy Award. In 2004, Prince became part of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. "Rolling Stone" magazine ranked Prince at number 27 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. On April 18, 2014, Prince released a new single entitled "The Breakdown." He also announced that he had re-signed with his former label, Warner Bros. Records after an 18-year split. His penultimate album "Hitnrun Phase One" was made available on the music streaming service Tidal before being released on CD in September 2015. His final album, "HITNRUN Phase Two," was first released exclusively on the Tidal streaming service on December 11, 2015. Prince was in the middle of what would be his last tour, Piano & A Microphone Tour, when he had to postpone two performances stating that he was "battling the flu." Prince was found dead at his Paisley Park complex on the morning of April 21, 2016, leaving behind a legacy. Author: Rachel Baig