Four months ago, the clash between these two clubs was set to dictate who made the Champions League. In the end, Hoffenheim's dominant 3-1 win was enough to book their place and allow Dortmund to scrape in on their opponent's coattails, courtesy of Bayer Leverkusen's inability to win their match by a big-enough margin. For the 84 minutes before Christian Pulisic's fluky winner on Tuesday, Dortmund hadn't looked a team capable of taking advantage of their fortune, while Hoffenheim were vibrant on their Champions League debut and were unfortunate to take just a point off Shakhtar Dontesk. But it's been a somewhat different tale domestically, where Julian Nagelsmann's side lost to newly promoted Fortuna Düsseldorf last weekend to make it just three points from their opening three games. Time needed for Dortmund's attacking balance Despite a reputation for getting the best out of attacking players, Lucien Favre's first five competetive games, with the exception of the 4-1 win over Leipzig on Matchday 1, have seen BVB struggle a little for creative coherence but, on the plus side, they have yet to concede more than a single goal  in a match. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34yWr "It's clear that we will need some patience and time. We have good defensive stability, but we can certainly do something better in the game ahead," said Dortmund's sporting director Michael Zorc on Thursday. Favre echoed the call for patience. "It takes time, it does not take just a week. It will take much longer than that for us to find the right system," the coach said at the same press conference. The Swiss coach reported that Paco Alcacer, who scored from the bench on his debut against Eintracht Frankfurt last week, is touch and go for the game with a knock, while Thomas Delaney could return from a knee injury. While his opposite number still needs time to get his ideas across, Nagelsmann's team are definitively his own. While the slow domestic start may trouble him, Hoffenheim also struggled early last season before losing just one of their last 11 games to finish in a record-high third position. Hoffenheim squad spread too thin? That run came after the side from Sinsheim had been knocked out of the Europa League and the German Cup, leading some to question whether their small squad was capable of competing on multiple fronts. Nagelsmann suggested after Wednesday's 2-2 draw, that he was aware of the perils of regular games, particularly as Dortmund have had an extra 24 hours to recover. "In the end, we lacked the legs, due to the amount of energy we had already used," he admitted after the Ukrainian side equalized for a second time late on. "We defended well and we knowingly sat deep in order to bring them to us, so we could counter. The result is fair, due to the final quarter of an hour." Despite their decent start, Dortmund have still not won a Bundesliga game on the road since February. The chance to put seven points between them and a side that finished above them last term should enhance the motivation to end that wretched run. Elsewhere in the Bundesliga Bayern Munich's Leon Goretzka faces his old club this weekend - Two more of Germany's European representatives continue their scramble to get off the mark in the league this weekend. Bayer Leverkusen host Mainz in a match that looks straightforward, until you consider that the Zero Fivers have already picked up seven points. - The Werkself still face an easier task than the other pointless club, with Schalke welcoming Bayern in Saturday's late game. Leon Goretzka will return to Schalke for the first time since his free transfer to Bayern and he's not expecting to be applauded by the home fans like teammate Renato Sanches. "I am looking forward to going to Gelsenkirchen," the midfielder said after Bayern beat Benfica. "I do not think they will receive me as the [Benfica] fans received Renato [Sanches] today. There are two camps: Some wish me well, but others express displeasure." - While Schalke and Leverkusen are the only side on zero points, Hannover, Nuremburg, Freiburg and Stuttgart are all still seeking a first win of 2018-19. Bundesliga Matchday 4 fixtures Stuttgart vs. Fortuna Düsseldorf (Friday, 8:30 p.m) Augsburg vs. Werder Bremen Hertha Berlin vs. Borussia Mönchengladbach (Saturday, 3:30 p.m) Hoffenheim vs. Borussia Dortmund Nuremburg vs. Hannover Wolfsburg vs. Freiburg Schalke vs. Bayern Munich (Saturday 6.30pm) Bayer Leverkusen vs. Mainz (Sunday 3.30pm) Eintracht Frankfurt vs. RB Leipizig (Sunday 6pm) There was drama even in the final game of the weekend as Freiburg and Stuttgart shared the points in a six-goal thriller. Jerome Gondorf scored in the first minute and from a free kick, but a brace from Mario Gomez and a first ever Bundesliga for Emiliano Insua had Stuttgart ahead. Super sub Luca Waldschmidt leveled the scores though in a dramatic return to the dugot for Christian Streich. The trend of late goals continued in Sunday's first game when Nuremberg made Werder Bremen pay for not scoring a second by equalizing in stoppage time. After a brilliant strike from outside the area by Maximilian Eggestein had given the home side the lead, Werder should have added more. And deep into stoppage time, Virgil Misidjan made the home side pay. That's three matches and three defeats for Schalke in a sorry start to the season for last year's second-placed finishers. And to make matters worse the Royal Blues face Bayern Munich next. For hosts Gladbach, it was three big points sealed with an early and a late goal. But Schalke generated many excellent chances to get back in the game, only to squander them. Emil Forsberg, Timo Werner, goal. This tried and tested formula was repeated twice as Leipzig sealed a tricky home win against stubborn opposition. A win was due, after Leipzig lost and drew their opening two. Yussuf Poulsen had opened the scoring for the hosts, while Niklas Füllkrug and Miiko Albornoz netted for Hannover. Home fans suffered an early scare at the Allianz when Leverkusen took the lead (at the second attempt) from the penalty spot. But Bayern were back in control within a quarter of an hour. Red-hot Corentin Tolisso netted another, but later picked up an injury. Arjen Robben gave the hosts the lead with a splendid volley. No prizes for guessing which foot he used. Neither could maintain their perfect record, but both the season's fast-starters remain unbeaten after their encounter. Both sides scored in stoppage time, including a cheeky low free kick underneath the wall from Ondrej Duda. However, Admir Mehmedi was on hand to restore parity for the Wolves off the bench three minutes after the 90 had elapsed. Paco Alcacer starts his Dortmund career as he means to go on, with a late goal after coming off the bench. Two super subs helped seal the win for Dortmund. Prior to Alcacer's strike, Jadon Sancho provided a magical assist for Marius Wolf, restoring Dortmund's lead at a critical stage of play, moments after Frankfurt equalized. Late goals were the order of the day on Saturday afternoon, with eight goals scored in the last five minutes across the five fixtures. Two fell in this match, first Hoffenheim's 86th-minute equalizer and then Dodi Lukebakio's winner with just two minutes left to play. As well as the Watford loanee, Arsenal loanee Reiss Nelson netted for the losers. This tussle turned into a story of disallowed goals and impact substitutions. Both sides had first-half goals disallowed, first Augsburg and then Mainz, before three substitutes scored all the goals in the last 10 minutes. Augsburg took a huge away lead, only to lose it in the dying seconds. Alexandru Maxim netted the third and final goal from range.