German national Ilhami A., from the northern German city of Hamburg, was handed a jail sentence in Turkey on Friday after being found guilty of spreading propaganda for the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The 46-year-old appeared in court in the eastern city of Elazig where he received a sentence of three years and one-and-a-half months, according to German public broadcasters NDR, WDR and the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper. The media reports said the sentence was put on hold until a final decision by a higher court. But Ilhami A. was ordered to remain in Turkey during the appeal process. His conviction took place unusually fast, as suspects in Turkey are often in custody for months before being charged. Ilhami A. was arrested last month in the town of Saribasak,in a largely Kurdish region of Turkey, during a visit to his mother. He was accused of publishing content on Facebook that praised several Kurdish politicians and thought leaders, including PKK leader Abdullah Öcalan, while criticizing the Turkish government. Posting in support of outlawed group The public prosecutor's office said Ilhami A. also shared photos of PKK fighters, which amounted to "terrorist propaganda." Read more: German journalist Mesale Tolu arrives home after Turkey lifts travel ban March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. All three have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier The PKK has fought a near 35-year armed conflict against Turkey to establish an autonomous Kurdish region in the east and southeast of the country. The group is considered a terrorist organization in Turkey, the EU and the US. Ilhami A., who is a self-employed taxi driver, has denied the allegations and insists that the Facebook profile isn't his, according to the indictment. Six other Germans are currently in detention in Turkey for "political reasons," according to official figures. They include Dennis E., who was also arrested last month and charged for expressing his support for the PKK. Relations remain strained Their jailing, and a wider crackdown on dissent by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has weakened relations between Ankara and Berlin. Following the 2016 failed coup in Turkey, Ankara accused Germany of harboring several of the alleged perpetrators linked to US based Islamic preacher Fethullah Gülen, whom Turkey holds responsible for an attempted coup. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34Rle During the subsequent state of emergency, several Germans were imprisoned, including the German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel. Yücel was released earlier this year, although he still remains indicted on similar "terror propaganda" charges. Read more: Turkey's economic woes reveal complicated Germany ties Earlier this week, it was revealed that a German national has been in a Turkish prison for more than a year as a result of the post-coup crackdown. Nejat U. was sentenced to nine years and nine months in prison by a Turkish court in July 2017, according to public broadcasters WDR, NDR and the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper. On Tuesday, meanwhile, an Austrian national was detained on terrorism-related charges in Ankara. mm/kws (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.