It's quiet in Hambach Forest today. There is no sound besides birds singing and wind whistling through the trees. Today, there are no workers dismantling tree houses, no yelling activists, no chainsaws cutting down trees to make way for bigger machines. Today, there is only stillness, sadness and shock. On Wednesday afternoon, a journalist fell around 20 meters (66 feet) from a bridge suspended between two tree houses in the occupied Hambach Forest. Despite efforts to revive him, the 27-year-old German citizen died after being flown out by helicopter. Following the accident, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia's interior minister, Herbert Reul, announced that police activities in the forest would be suspended — for now. "We cannot just proceed as normal — at least I can't," Reul said at a press conference Wednesday night. Whether the eviction will continue is not yet known. The journalist is understood to have fallen from the bridge leading off this treehouse Read more: Hambach Forest: Battleground for climate action 'Pure sunshine' Activists and members of the public have gathered in Beechtown, one of the treehouse villages. People lay flowers on a makeshift altar, hug each other, sit on the leaf-covered forest floor and converse in whispers. Activists and citizens took time to mourn and honor the dead journalist in Hambach Forest A yellow banner hangs between two trees: "We love you and we won't forget," it reads in red letters, just a few meters from where the journalist died. The journalist had been present at the protest in the forest for months. He was working on a documentary about the occupation, he told me when I met him last week in Hambach Forest. A fellow freelance journalist — with no direct assignment, but clearly strongly motivated to document what was happening on the ground. Equipped with a 360-degree camera placed on his bicycle helmet, and a big smile. To those he met, he came across as a friendly, chatty guy. Indeed, he was a friend to many activists and colleagues. "He was pure sunshine, you simply had to like him," Antonia Greco, a freelance photographer, told DW. "We got along really well because we were documenting the same thing." She spent many days and nights with him in the forest, filming and photographing the activists' lives. She also witnessed his fall. "I'm about to collapse … but I want to be here today," she said, as she shared her account. The two trees that held the treehouse where the journalist fell from have been blocked off with police tape The journalist had been in the forest virtually around the clock when the eviction started. On Tuesday this week he decided to climb up into the trees, apparently frustrated that media couldn't get closer to where the action was. "It's become apparent over the past days that it has been difficult for the press to move around in the forest, to get into the forest, or to duly cover the eviction, because the police have cordoned off vast areas around the operation," he said in a video uploaded to his Twitter account on September 18. "Well, now the press is here up in the trees in Beechtown, in order to cover everything from above and to inform the people about what is happening here. See you soon!" He published several short videos and photos documenting conversations between police officers and activists, as well as demolition work taking place around 20 meters from where he stood. A video about workers on a crane was his very last tweet. At around 3:50 p.m. local time, he fell to his death. Read more: Hambach Forest: Journalist dies after fall from treehouse bridge The day also included some confrontation, as police detained a woman with climbing gear when she could not produce identification What happened? Police and activists have slightly different accounts of what happened in the minutes before the tragic accident. While police maintain that no police activities were taking place near the treehouse where the journalist was standing, activists and eyewitnesses say an officer was on a crane by the next tree, only a few meters away. Visible from his last tweets is a nearby crane, high in the trees, perhaps 20 meters away. All accounts agree, however, that it was an accident — a string of unfortunate circumstances. Aachen police, who are responsible for the region, did not provide comment to DW by the time of publication. What exactly happened should be clarified in the near future; the public prosecutor has opened an investigation into the incident. "It's not the time for pointing fingers. It's time for grief," Lutz, one of the activists, told DW with tears in her eyes. 'Light a candle, sing your song! Show him that no one here is giving up!' reads a wooden plaque at the altar What comes next? As of Wednesday, the police reported that they had cleared 39 of the 51 treehouses activists built and have been living in for the last six years. Read more: Tears and treehouses: The occupation in Germany's Hambach Forest While State Interior Minister Reul suspended the eviction, he also called on the activists to voluntarily vacate their treehouses. RWE — the energy company whose proposed expansion of an open-cast lignite mine sparked the protest — said in a statement that it regrets the tragic incident, but didn't provide further information on how it plans to proceed. So far, the activists say they will remain where they are. Tree-sitters in the area where the journalist fell are still up in the trees, and have only lowered themselves to quickly hug friends in mutual consolation over the tragedy. They worry about being arrested or expelled if they leave the forest. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35EWT Psychologists and pastors have offered to provide counseling. Maja Rothe, a spokeswoman for the organization Aktion Unterholz, said it's too early to consider what will happen next. "We are without words. Today is about mourning — we don't have any concrete plans, it's not the moment for strategic communication or action," Rothe told DW. Peace, and time to come to terms with what has happened — that's what most of the activists seek at the moment. "We are not demanding anything. We are thinking about how things can go on here, and if we would like to continue," one of the activists, who didn't want to be named, told DW. There were also scenes of anger and yelling when police detained a woman in possession of climbing equipment after she was unable to provide identification. The accident has been tough on everyone involved. So for one day, politics have been set aside. At the heart of Europe, in western Germany, near the border to France and Belgium, a scrap of ancient forest holds thousand-year-old trees along with abundant wildlife. But there's another species living there in the forest as well — our own. About 150 people currently live in what's left of Hambach forest, many in makeshift tree houses. Although living in a tree house may appear idyllic, many of the environmental activists have uprooted their lives for the better part of six years — living without electricity and running water — to protect the forest, and take a stance against the power of the fossil fuel industry. Several hundred police officers accompanied RWE workers for protection as they visited the forest on Wednesday, September 5, to expel the protesters in preparation for clearing. Although the operation was mostly peaceful, one activist was arrested after resisting police. Activists joke about their "dangerous weapons," such as an empty fire extinguisher. Just days before the police action on September 5, Herbert Reul, the interior minister for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, warned that police and RWE staff in the Hambach forest were dealing with "extremely violent left-wing extremists." Members of the protest group have denied Reul's description. Over the years, police have clashed with protesters in the Hambach forest. In 2017, police employed pepper spray to disperse protesters in advance of planned logging. The looming eviction is likely to result in the largest confrontation there yet. Here is the result of a recent RWE clearing campaign, which ran from October 2016 to March 2017. In the background, the smokestacks of the Niederaussem power station can be seen. With a CO2 output of more than 29 million tons yearly, this is Europe's third-dirtiest power plant. Due to massive toxic emissions such as mercury and sulfur, it is also considered Germany's second-most-toxic power plant. "Clumsy" has lived among the treetops in the Hambach forest since the resistance against the RWE coalmine project began in 2012. He believes the battle over the forest is a critical turning point for German climate policy, and the government's decision is one between "giving in to the lignite hardliners, [or] protecting our life support basis on this planet." Only about 10 percent of the once sprawling Hambach forest has survived the mine's onslaught. What's left appears miniscule in comparison to the vast expanse of the mine, which already covers about 85 square kilometers (33 square miles). But environmentalists say the forest holds enormous ecological value, and is home to abundant and biodiverse ecology, including endangered animal species. The Hambach mine, located between Aachen and Cologne, is Germany's largest open-cast mine. Here, RWE uses enormous excavators to extract brown coal, also known as lignite, from the earth. Lignite is among the fossil fuels that emit the most carbon dioxide when burned. What remains of Hambach forest is the last bastion in a long battle against the expansion of the mine. Environmental activists have undertaken nonviolent resistance against the RWE coal mine expansion for more than six years. Through their actions, they claim to not only want to save the Hambach forest from destruction, but also send a message to the world about the dangerous consequences of prioritizing fossil fuel extraction over important ecological sites. Activists from all over the world have supported the action by staying for days or weeks at a time. Over the past six years, activists have literally built up an alternative community within the forest. Although it is still unclear what exactly will happen in the struggle between the protesters and the fossil fuel giant, potential eviction is an ever-present possibility for the forest dwellers. Author: Charli Shield