Risto Mijakovski sits in a tent in the small park opposite the Macedonian parliament building in the capital Skopje. A painter by trade, Mijakovski is a member of the #Bojkotiram (Boycott) movement which wants to preserve the Republic of Macedonia. "By changing our name they want to completely erase the Macedonian nation. We are losing our identity, our language, everything," he tells DW. The debate over what to call the country has been simmering since independence in 1991. Now, it has reached boiling point. Citizens in one of Europe's youngest countries are set to vote on renaming the former Yugoslav republic "North Macedonia." Recent polls suggest that the majority of Macedonians plan to support the change. But a growing numbers of voters, like Risto Mijakovski, are trying to undermine the procedure by boycotting the referendum. They hope that if the required 50 percent turnout is not met, the vote would be declared invalid. Risto Mijakovski in front of his protest tent Greece and Macedonia signed a deal in June this year, in an effort to end the stalemate over a northern Greek province with the same name. Macedonia's prime minister agreed to the change to North Macedonia. In return, his Greek counterpart promised to stop vetoing Macedonian membership of NATO and the EU. If the electorate decides to add the geographic qualifier to their current name, it would open the door to the international community. If they don't, the consequences for one the poorest countries in Europe could be devastating. Read more: Greece's anti-Macedonia protests fuel nationalist sentiment Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zSwC A historic chance The government in Skopje claims that the agreement does not endanger Macedonian identity, but rather strengthens it on an international level. Leading European and US politicians, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and US Defense Secretary Jim Mathis among them, have visited Macedonia to show their support. "This is a historic chance that a generation has only once. Don't stay at home: Seize the democratic opportunity to say what you think about the future of your country," Merkel said at a joint news conference with Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev earlier this month. During his visit to Skopje on September 6, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg confirmed that the "Macedonian defense minister would be able to sit on the NATO table in February next year if the deal is accepted." EU Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn warned that if Macedonia did not take this "window of opportunity," it could be "closed for decades. If not forever." Read more: EU to start membership talks with Macedonia and Albania For decades Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) had a contentious relationship over the name. When Yugoslavia broke up Macedonia declared its independence and took the name Republic of Macedonia, Greece objected as its northern region is also called Macedonia. In 2018, the two countries settled the dispute and Macedonia is now known as The Republic of Nothern Macedonia. The Irish have long had a contentious relationship with the United Kingdom. While Ireland was for centuries part of the UK, the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 gave Ireland complete independence in its home affairs but an opt-out clause allowed Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom. The islands in the southern Atlantic have had French, British, Spanish and Argentinian settlements. The British refer to the archipelago as the Falkland Islands and reasserted its rule over them in 1833. Argentina maintains that the islands are called the Islas Malvinas and are a part of its territory. In 1982, Argentina invaded the islands until a British force retook the territories. The small group of islands controlled by Japan in the East China Sea has long been a sore point between Japan and China. China claims it discovered what it calls the Diaoyu islands in the 14th century. After World War II, the US administered the island but returned control to Japan in 1972. With the discovery of oil reserves in 1968, ownership is now once again an issue. Author: Andy Valvur Getting out the vote One western diplomat, speaking to DW on the condition of anonymity, said that EU countries and the US might support Zaev's position, but only if the referendum produces a clear majority in favor of the agreement with Greece. Faced with the possibility of a low turnout Prime Minister Zaev and other government ministers have changed their narrative in the last days of the campaign. "The success of the referendum would be decided by those who vote. Those who do not vote do not even count," Zaev told a press conference on Tuesday, basically rejecting the turnout as a precondition for the success of the referendum. Hristijan Mickoski, leader of the main opposition party VMRO-DPMNE, has described the agreement as "treason."  But, afraid he might lose the support of the EU and the US, Mickoski does not want to be seen as an official part of the boycott campaign. "The agreement to change our name is harmful and should be rejected. It is against the Macedonian national interests and against the Macedonian state," he told supporters at a recent rally. Read more: Macedonian President Ivanov says he won't sign 'disastrous' name deal with Greece As well as Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the geographic region of Macedonia extends into Albania, Bulgaria and Serbia as well as small areas of Kosovo (which you can't quite see here). The ancient kingdom of Macedonia – or Macedon – was a relatively small part of the present day Greek province of Macedonia. It first expanded under King Perdiccas I, then widened to take in other areas. After the fall of the Greek Empire, the Romans – who admired Alexander – used the old name Macedonia for the province encompassing much of northern Greece and the area north of it – including much of the modern-day Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. With the breakup of the Roman Empire into East and West, this region was overrun by the Slavic invasions. An entirely new province far to the east, including part of Thrace in modern-day Turkey, was named Macedonia by the Byzantine Empress Irene of Athens. The geographic region known as Macedonia today roughly equates to the part of the Ottoman Empire known as Ottoman Vardar Macedonia. It included Greek and Slavic areas and was split into three administrative units, but the concept of Macedonia persisted. This remained the case for centuries and so this concept – of what Macedonia is – has stuck. ...and there's certainly a fair bit of overlap — and room for confusion. Of course, Macedonia's King Alexander the Great's realm stretched all the way to India — but it would be a bit of a stretch to call that Macedonia As if it weren’t complicated enough, there’s another meaning of the word Macedonia. In Greece and many Latin-language-speaking countries, it’s also a fruit salad. The name is thought to have ben popularized at the end of the 18th century, referring to either the ethnic diversity of Alexander's vast empire or the ethnic mix of Ottoman Macedonia. Author: Richard Connor The last hurdle Even after the vote, one large hurdle must still be overcome. The government needs to ensure a two-thirds majority in parliament to ratify the agreement and make the necessary constitutional changes. That won't be possible without the support of VMRO-DPMNE. A government source speaking on condition of anonymity told DW that the government hopes a combination of support in the referendum and international pressure can sway at least some of opposition lawmakers. For Risto Mijakovski of the Boycott campaign, that would be unacceptable. "Only the people can decide this issue," he told DW. Mijakovski has already made up his mind not to vote, and hopes the referendum will fail. He plans to stay in his tent until "the name Republic of Macedonia is saved." Risto Mijakovski is in it for the long haul in Skopje Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.