DW's Arabic-language show "Shabab Talk" sparked controversy in Sudan this week after a woman gave a passionate speech decrying oppression against women while addressing an Islamic scholar during a show entitled "What do Sudanese women want?" Weam Shawky, age 28, lambasted societal norms regarding women in the North African country, especially widespread harassment against women. "When I'm walking on the street and a man treats me like an object, not as a human being, the person who gives him the right to harass me, he is sick, not the clothes I'm wearing," Shawky said while addressing Mohammed Osman Saleh, who heads the Sudan Scholars Corporation. "The clothes that I wear respect my humanity and are part of my freedom of choice and not the choice of society, with its sick and backwards traditions." Video of the segment went viral, garnering more than 1 million views on social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. It triggered a wider discussion about gender equality in Sudan. Read more: Jaafar Abdul Karim: 'Does the Arab world need a women‘s rights revolution?' Women across the world praised Weam Shawky for her courage to stand up to authority on the show Heated debate Yemeni journalist and radio anchor Hind al-Eryani praised Shawky's courage to stand up against the scholar, saying: "Big shout out to strong women in Sudan." Others said she represents a symbol of "courage and tenacity" and her argument was "super convincing." However, others were less pleased with Shawky. Several religious leaders in Sudan spoke about the incident during their traditional Friday sermons, including Khartoum imam and TV preacher Abdulhay Yusuf. Another preacher accused "Shabab Talk" host Jaafar Abdul Karim of visiting Sudan to "spread atheism." Shortly after the program ended, Saleh gave a press conference to deride the show, saying it represented the "enemies of our culture." "It's quite funny how (a) majority of the people complaining and getting hurt by this episode are men, when the whole topic is literally titled 'What do Sudanese woman want," said one Twitter user. "It's almost as if they feel threatened." Read more: Saudi women's rights activist Madeha Alajroush: 'Finally, I am celebrating' Some religious leaders accused DW host Jaafar Abdul Karim of attempting to "spread atheism" in Sudan 'Criminalization of women' Human rights groups have long criticized Sudanese authorities for what they call the "criminalization of women" in the country. "Sudanese law discriminates against women and girls in various ways, including through the application of Sharia law penalties for 'morality crimes,' such as adultery or dress-code violations," Human Rights Watch said in its 2018 report. Redress, a London-based organization, published a report last year noting that "public order laws are vague and open-ended leaving them open to exploitation as a social-control tool by authorities." Read more: 'I am an Arab women. Am I oppressed?' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30UrS Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.