From Bernard Langer to Martin Kaymer, German golfers have played their part in shaping the history of the Ryder Cup. It was just six years ago that Kaymer tapped in the deciding two-meter putt before jumping into the arms of Sergio Garcia and running across the golf course with a Germany flag to celebrate the "Miracle at Medinah." Ryder Cup: Sergio Garcia and Tiger Woods among wildcard picks Experience not enough for Kaymer In the latest rendition of the golf's biggest event, in which 24 of the world's best golfers battle it out over three days as Team America and Team Europe, there will be no German participant. Since 1981, that has only happened on three previous occasions – 1999, 2006 and 2008. "I felt like I had to go with experience. I feel like I had to go with people that are proven in this environment," said Team Europe captain Thomas Björn. Perhaps an apt description of Kaymer, who has featured in the last four Ryder Cups, picking up three wins and a total of 6.5 points. However, a slip down the rankings below the Top 200 led to him too missing out on the wildcard pick. "I always said that the eight would kind of dictate where you go with the four," said Björn, who opted to select Paul Casey, Sergio Garcia, Ian Poulter and Henrik Stenson. "It was not an easy decision because so many guys have played and so many guys have tried hard and they put every effort into it. They deserve that you consider them, but in the end this was the decision that was reached. It was tough to make the phone calls to the ones who missed out." Martin Kaymer celebrates his winning putt at the 2012 Ryder Cup. Kaymer's response came in the form of a Facebook post which read: "I'm looking forward to defending the Ryder Cup with you all in 2020. Go Europe!" Neumann: "Creating a welcoming culture is key" Even if the former world No.1 is reaches his target though, the German Golf Association (DGV) believes more needs to change. "Even if Martin Kaymer or a different German tour player were set to feature in Paris, we're still a long way from being satisfied with our situation as an association,” said the director of sport at the DFV, Marcus Neumann. "Right now, the situation is that we've got a lot of German players on tour – a number that is increasing." According to Neumann, it's becoming increasingly difficult to bring through the next generation of golfers. Children in the UK and Scandinavia "have much easier contact to golf," than those growing up in Germany where "time and financing" are needed to help attract the masses back to a beloved sport. "Creating a more authentic and welcoming culture in the golf clubs is the key to getting more kids on board and having a good mix of age groups," Neumann continued. "Three factors which we're keen to strengthen in the future: the fun factor, the sporting development and social well-being." While there will be no German participation, there will be plenty of other golfing stars on show at the Ryder Cup that could catch the attention of the next generation. As Neumann put it: "You can't plan for when the next world star is born." At just six months old, the young Tiger Woods was reportedly able to copy his dad's golf swings. Eighteen months later, he'd made his first appearance on TV. By the age of 13, he'd become close to a household name, featuring on all the major networks in the US. He was also picking up just about every trophy in the junior ranks. The American turned pro at 20 after picking up a trio US Amatuer titles and, true to form, wasted no time making his mark. Just two months after becoming a professional in 1996, he was picking up his first PGA Tour win at the Las Vegas Invitational. If the win in Vegas was a milestone, this was the moment Woods really arrived on the global stage. At 21, he became the youngest man ever to win at Augusta and picked up the famous green jacket. He'd go on to win the Masters three more times, with his current major championship tally standing at 14. April 8, 2001 was arguably the most remarkable day of an astounding career. Again it came at Augusta as Woods picked up a second Masters win. Impressive as that is, that win also mean he held all four major titles at once, something no other golfer has managed. In October 2004, Woods married Swedish model Elin Nordegren after he met her through fellow golfer Jesper Parnevik, for whom Nordegren worked as a nanny. The pair tied the knot in Barbados and had a son named Charlie Axel and a daugher named Sam together. Throughout his career up to this point in 2009, Woods had always maintained a squeaky clean image. But in the wake of allegations of multiple affairs, he crashed his car in to a fire hydrant, a tree and some hedges outside his Florida mansion. The subsequent days, weeks and months saw him pull out of tournaments, lose several lucrative sponsorship deals and his marriage ended in 2010. The Bridgestone Invitational at the Firestone Country Clum in Akron, Ohio is far from the most prestigious of tournaments. But, until this week, it looked like it would have a certain sort of significance. This 2013 win was Woods' 79th PGA Tour win and, for a long time, looked like being his last. After missing the Masters for the first time in his career in 2014, Woods returned to Augusta a year later. But it wasn't the comeback he'd hoped for. Woods looked out of sorts and was clearly struggling with the back injuries that would eventually require several operations and a lot of recovery time. In the early hours of the morning, again not far from his Florida home, Woods was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs after falling asleep at the wheel in a traffic lance with the engine running. Woods initially blamed it on prescription drugs and later pleaded guilty to reckless driving, was fined and banned from drinking alcohol for the year that he's under probation. After making his way back from nearly two years out injured and position 1199 on the world ranking list, Woods finally got his hands on some silverware again after five long years at the weekend. "I just can't believe I pulled this off," the 42-year-old said. "I was having a hard time not crying coming up to the last hole." He'll now play for the USA in the Ryder Cup, which starts on Friday. 