The remaining signatories of the Iran nuclear deal announced on Monday that they would establish a channel to facilitate payments for Iran's exports, including oil, as well as its imports. The decision was reached after high level, closed-door talks at the UN in New York. "Mindful of the urgency and the need for tangible results, the participants welcomed practical proposals to maintain and develop payment channels, notably the initiative to establish a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to facilitate payments related to Iran's exports, including oil," Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the EU said in a joint statement. The group said they were determined "to protect the freedom of their economic operators to pursue legitimate business with Iran." An SPV could breathe life into the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the Iran nuclear deal, and was sought by Tehran in order to counter the re-imposition of sanctions triggered by the US exit from the deal. The EU has struggled up until now to devise a workable legal framework to shield its companies from the effects of US sanctions, which are set to come into effect in November, and has tried to deter firms from pulling out of Iran. US President Trump signed an executive order on August 5 aimed at piling financial pressure on Tehran to force a "comprehensive and lasting solution" to Iranian threats, including its development of missiles and regional "malign" activities. Trump warned that those who don't wind down their economic ties to Iran "risk severe consequences." The first phase, which took effect on August 7, targets the Islamic Republic's access to US banknotes, making transactions in a US-dollar dominated financial world difficult. A ban on Iran purchasing precious metals including gold further serves as an attempt to cut the country off from global markets. Phase one also hits key industries including the purchase of commercial planes, cars and carpets. Iranian imports of graphite, aluminum, steel, coal, gold and some software are also affected. German automaker Daimler called off the production and sale of Mercedes-Benz trucks in Iran indefinitely after the sanctions came into force. A second phase of sanctions — which is due to take effect on November 5 and will block Iran's oil sales — is due to cause more damage. Several countries, however, including China, India and Turkey have indicated they are not willing to entirely cut their Iranian energy purchases. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the United States had launched "psychological warfare" against Iran to create division amongst its people. But he insisted that Iran still can rely on its allies China and Russia to keep its oil and banking sectors afloat. He has also demanded compensation for decades of American "intervention" in the Islamic Republic. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc is encouraging small and medium enterprises to increase their business with Iran. She said Tehran has been compliant with their nuclear-related commitments. The EU issued a "blocking statute" to protect European businesses from the impact of the sanctions. Author: Keith Walker Nonetheless, a number of business including French energy giant Total, carmakers Peugeot and Renault, as well as Germany's Siemens and Daimler have already suspended operations in Iran.. The impending sanctions have also had a debilitating effect on Iran's economy, helping trigger a slide in Iran's currency. The rial has lost about two-thirds of its value this year, hitting a record low against the US dollar this month. Read more: How the EU plans to get around US sanctions on Iran EU and member state ministers met with Iran's foreign minister in May An EU legal entity EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the countries were still working out the technical details, but explained that member states will create a "legal entity" to ensure legitimate financial transactions can be made with Iran. "In practical terms, this will mean that EU member states will set up a legal entity to facilitate legitimate financial transactions with Iran and this will allow European companies to continue to trade with Iran in accordance with European Union law and could be open to other partners in the world," she told reporters. Read more: US reimposes sanctions on Iran: What does that mean? Mogherini stressed that the financial facility could also help preserve the nuclear agreement that is "in the international interest" and that the EU argues has been successful at preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapon. The announcement at the UN comes a day before Trump and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani separately address the General Assembly, where the US leader is expected to take a hard line on Iran. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35FhK jcg/jm (AFP, Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.