A US judge handed George Papadopoulos a 14-day prison sentence on Friday, noting that the former campaign adviser to US President Donald Trump had "lied in an investigation that was important to national security." Papadopoulos pleaded guilty last year to making false statements to the FBI about his contacts with Russian intermediaries. He is the first campaign aide to be sentenced in Special Counsel Robert Mueller's ongoing probe into possible collusion between Russia and the 2016 election campaign of then-Republican candidate Trump. "I hope to have a second chance to redeem myself," Papadopoulos told the federal court in Washington. "I made a dreadful mistake but I am a good man." Read more: What you need to know about the Mueller investigation Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33aAw Light sentence Government prosecutors had demanded a prison sentence of up to six months, saying that Papadopoulos' lies had impeded their investigation and that his efforts to cooperate were "at best begrudging." Judge Randolph Moss said he took into consideration Papadopoulos' "genuine remorse" in issuing the lesser sentence, which included 200 hours of community service, a $9,500 fine and a year on parole. Read more: Trump pooh-poohs Papadopoulos meeting June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians." An FBI agent told a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, said there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announced it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers. Senator Jeff Sessions - an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee - met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event. Julian Assange's WikiLeaks published 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders. The FBI announced it was investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected president of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov said there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issued a firm denial. Trump named General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Acting attorney general Sally Yates told White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fired Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts. Trump said he had "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI Director James Comey confirmed before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign. In a letter announcing the termination, Trump wrote: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau." Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Shortly after Mueller convenes a grand jury for the investigation, the FBI seizes documents from one of Paul Manafort’s properties as part of a raid for Mueller’s probe. The former Trump campaigner manager stepped down in August 2016 after allegations surfaced that he had received large payments linked to Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government. Donald Trump Jr. tells the Senate Judiciary Committee he has not colluded with a foreign government. The closed-door interview relates to his June 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, which was also attended by his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and then campaign manager Paul Manafort. Trump Jr.’s emails, however, suggest the meeting was supposed to produce dirt on Clinton. Facebook, Twitter and Google reportedly tell US media they have evidence that Russian operatives exploited platforms to spread disinformation during the 2016 US presidential election. The three companies are expected to appear before a Senate Intelligence Committee in November. Author: Jo Harper, Kathleen Schuster Russian connection Papadopoulos, who was on Trump's national security and foreign policy advisory board during the presidential campaign, testified that senior campaign members encouraged him to build ties with Russia in the leadup to the election. One of the 31-year-old's contacts was a London-based professor, Joseph Mifsud, who told him in April 2016 that Russian officials had "dirt" on Trump's presidential rival Hillary Clinton in the form of "thousands of emails." Weeks later, stolen Clinton emails were leaked online by what US intelligence officials say were Russian actors. Read more: Donald Trump denies collusion, says Russia probe 'a disaster' Defense lawyer Thomas Breen said his client was only interested in using his connections with Mifsud and other Russian nationals to broker a meeting between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin — a move he believed the campaign supported. In court papers, Breen said Papadopoulos proposed the idea at a meeting in March 2016 with Trump, then-campaign adviser Jeff Sessions who went on to become US attorney general, and other foreign policy campaign advisers. Both Trump and Sessions appeared to support the plan, according to the lawyer. Sessions has previously denied backing such a proposal. Over the summer, a security company hired by the Democratic National Convention tells the DNC that they have been successfully infiltrated by hackers for more than year. Two groups, known as Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear, both have links to the Russian government, the Washington Post reports. At the end of July, the FBI launches an investigation into whether or not the Russian government ordered the DNC hack. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov calls the move "paranoid." On the campaign trail, Republican nominee Donald Trump encourages Russia to "find the 30,000 emails that are missing." In a series of debates with rival Hillary Clinton, Trump casts doubt on Moscow's role in hacks that targeted the DNC and Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Wikileaks begins releasing slightly compromising emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Co-founder Julian Assange defends targeting Clinton, saying Trump's own statements are indictment enough of the Republican nominee. Over a period of months, Wikileaks consistently denies allegations that its sources are Russian. In a rare moment of complete agreement for the US' two biggest intelligence agencies, both the FBI and CIA come to the conclusion that the Russia government sought to influence the US election by promoting unfavorable coverage of Hillary Clinton. Trump, who has made no secret of his admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calls the intelligence reports "ridiculous." Anti-Clinton voices slam the probe as a distraction meant to discredit the now president-elect. This puts Trump at odds with congressional Republicans who call for an independent investigation. At the end of December, the Obama administration expels 35 Russian diplomats and shuts down two Russian intelligence compounds as the Kremlin continues to deny a roll in the summer's cyber attacks. President Putin eschews direct retaliation, saying he will wait to see how President-elect Trump's Russia policies play out. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher 'Self-interest over the national interest' In delivering the sentence, Judge Moss said that while he did not "remotely believe Mr. Papadopoulos was seeking to assist the Russian government," he was nevertheless disturbed by the former aide's selfish motives in fibbing to the FBI because he hoped for a job in the Trump administration. "In some ways it constitutes a calculated exercise of self-interest over the national interest," the judge said. Russia rejects allegations that it meddled in the campaign. President Trump also denies collusion, and has repeatedly referred to the Mueller probe as a "witch hunt." He reacted swiftly to Friday's sentence via Twitter, ridiculing it as a trivial result for an investigation that has cost millions. "14 days for $28 MILLION  $2 MILLION a day, No Collusion. A great day for America!" Trump tweeted. Some 35 people and entities have been charged in the Mueller investigation so far. Five have pleaded guilty. Trump's former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, and deputy campaign manager Rick Gates, have accepted plea deals and are awaiting sentencing. Other officials on trial include Trump's former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, and former campaign chairman Paul Manafort. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2srmT nm/bw (AFP, Reuters, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.