Authorities in the German state of Lower Saxony said on Friday that up to three towns near the site of a moorland fire at a Bundeswehr testing facility may have to be evacuated. The head of the Emsland district authority, Reinhard Winter, said it could no longer be ruled out that the approximately 1,000 residents of the towns of Gross Stavern and Klein Stavern might have to be taken to safety. "It, of course, depends on how firefighting efforts go on the Bundeswehr terrain and on the changing weather conditions as to whether there has to be an evacuation at all," Winter said. He said stormy conditions, such as 85 kph (52 mph) winds, meant that smoke and flying sparks could increase Later on Friday, local news outlets reported that the fire had grown to the size of 1,000 football fields. Read more:German army to get €4 billion spending boost Hundreds of firefighters are on the scene, assisted by Bundeswehr personel Local official Marc-Andre Burgdorf said the residents of the two towns "are advised to keep calm, but should pack up the most important documents such as IDs, as well as necessary medications, just in case." Later in the day, authorities in the district of Emsland said that 7,500 people living in the area of Sögel might also need to be moved. Prosecutors in Lower Saxony said they were investigating the possibility of "negligent arson." Bundeswehr under criticism So far, smoke has been detected more than 100 kilometers (62 miles) from the site of the fire near the town of Meppen, causing residents to complain. The fire broke out more than two weeks ago after helicopters fired rockets over the moor as part of a drill. Usually, special fire engines are employed to douse the flames ensuing from such tests, but one was out of action and the other undergoing maintenance work at the time. Germany's Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen apologized in the name of Germany's Bundeswehr "to all of the people in the region suffering the effects of the fire. Speaking to the Neue Osnabrücker Zeitung on Friday, she said the moor fire was "a very serious incident that must not happen this way." Von der Leyen is set to travel to the area on Saturday to survey the damage and meet with officials. The fire was triggered when rockets tests in the moor by Germany's armed forces — the Bundeswehr — went awry. The rockets were fired from helicopters as part of the drill, but the all-terrain fire engine meant to put out the subsequent fire was out of action and its replacement was at the garage for maintenance work. The fire was thus able to spread quickly. The fire has been raging near the northern town of Meppen for more than two weeks and has spread across an area the size of more than 1,000 soccer fields. More than 850 firefighters, both civilian and military, are trying to contain the flames. The smoke can even be seen from space, the German Weather Service (DWD) said. Firefighters' efforts are hampered by strong winds fanning the flames. Access to the moor is restricted as it is riddled with unexploded ordnance. The moor is also covered with peat, which is flammable and almost water-resistant. It causes a smoldering fire under the surface rather than flames such as those caused by burning wood, for example. The area has been used by the military since 1876. The smoke from the fire is noticeable as far away as the city of Bremen, which is 100 kilometers (60 miles) from the moor near Meppen. Some even noticed it in Hamburg, which is more than twice as far away from the fire as Bremen. So far, no evacuation measures have been necessary, but it could take firefighters a few weeks more to put out the fire completely. The Bundeswehr has said it would launch an investigation, but it has been criticized for conducting the tests, given the extremely dry conditions this summer. A Green party MP has even decided to sue the Bundeswehr. Local prosecutors have launched preliminary proceedings to ascertain who can be held responsible for the fire. According to the Bundeswehr, it is not the first time the moor in Meppen has burnt. In 2010, a fire raged there for six weeks. Some have now called for a ban on military weapons tests in moorlands in dry conditions. Author: Nicole Goebel The Bundeswehr has been criticized for conducting the tests amid the extremely dry summer conditions. The moor is made even more flammable by its peat reserves, which can lead to smoldering fires underground that are hard to detect and fight. The situation is made yet more dangerous by unexploded ordnance buried in the soil of the area, which has been used by the German army since 1876. tj,es/sms (dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.