The head of the German Federation of Journalists (DJV) on Thursday described Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's upcoming state visit to Germany as a "slap in the face," as the group announced it would protest the occasion outside Berlin's central train station. The rally, slated to coincide with Erdogan's arrival in the German capital on September 28, is being organized along with several other rights groups, including Amnesty International, Reporters Without Borders and the German Journalists' Union (DJU). By receiving the Turkish president, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier had effectively conceded that the "abolition of press freedom is a purely Turkish affair" that has no bearing on relations with Germany," DJV chief Frank Überall said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34Rle During his two-day visit to Germany on September 28 and 29, Erdogan will be received with military honors and a state banquet hosted by Steinmeier, before holding talks with Merkel. German-Turkish relations have been badly strained on the back of Ankara's wide-scale purge of the civil service and military. Erdogan's purge has also seen some 250 journalists detained, mostly on the grounds of supporting "terror groups." Among those arrested were dual German-Turkish nationals Deniz Yücel and Mesale Tolu, although both have since been released pending trial. Announcing it was organizing the joint rally, Amnesty International said in a statement: "Criticism of the government, working for a 'suspicious' organization, coming into contact with sensitive sources, or simply using an encrypted messaging system — all these are enough for journalists to be arrested on terror charges." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30Cxs Erdogan to steer clear from Cologne mosque speech Turkey's embassy in Berlin played down claims that Erdogan was set to address German-Turkish nationals in Cologne on the second day of his state visit. Germany's Turkish-Islamic organization DITIB had confirmed this week that the Turkish president would open the new central mosque in Cologne, the country's largest, visiting the site with top regional politician Armin Laschet. However, embassy spokesperson Refik Sogukoglu told the DPA news agency that "a major speech was not planned" as part of the opening ceremony. Nevertheless, Erdogan still may hold private talks with DITIB officials. Read more: Turkey's Erdogan to open Cologne mosque in controversial state visit Turkish political rallies have been a point of contention in Germany ever since Erdogan was barred from addressing 40,000 of his supporters via video link in 2016. Last year, he was twice denied permission to hold rallies Germany; first in March ahead of a referendum to grant him sweeping new powers, and then again in July ahead of the G20 summit in Hamburg when he was pushing a plebiscite to reintroduce the death penalty. March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. All three have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/msh (dpa, AFP)