Manfred Weber of Germany's conservative Christian Social Union (CSU) said on Wednesday that he hopes to become the next president of the European Commission. The 46-year-old leads the European Parliament's center-right group, the European People's Party (EPP), and would be in with a strong chance of winning the presidency if he can secure their endorsement at the upcoming party congress in November. Road to the presidency Read more: European Commission warns of 'fake news,' meddling in 2019 European elections Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30kk3 Chances hinge on EPP election performance: The EPP is expected to come out ahead in the upcoming European elections, giving its candidate for the Commission presidency a strong chance of winning the approval of the EU heads of state. But the weaker parliamentary groups on the left could pull together to push through a joint candidate of their own. What does the Commission president do? The president of the European Commission is tasked with determining the EU executive's policy agenda. Legislation is drafted and then voted on and adopted by the European Parliament. The Commission president also represents the EU and major international summits, such as the G7 and G20. A German at the EU helm: With several top European roles up for grabs next year, it was always expected that a German — and Merkel ally — would be vying for at least one top job. According to reports, Berlin initially wanted to see one of its own take over from Mario Draghi as head of the European Central Bank, before Merkel made clear she preferred having an ally at the helm of the EU executive. The last German to lead the Commission was Walter Hallstein from 1958 to 1967. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2wzct Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/sms (dpa, Reuters, AFP)