Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega rejected reports that excessive force has been used against anti-government protesters in the country, in an exclusive interview with DW. "There is no persecution in Nicaragua," Ortega told DW's Carolina Chimoy in the country's capital Managua. He added that the crisis that has unfolded in the Central American country since mid-April is the result of an "attempted coup" by groups financially backed by the United States. "Who are the coup-plotters? They are troops who are being supplied by the United States," he said. "The best support that Germany can give us is to tell the United States that they shouldn't meddle in Nicaragua," Ortega added. The UN estimates that 300 people have died and another 2,000 have been injured as a result of the government's violent repression of the opposition and student protests that started on April 18. Embattled President Daniel Ortega has been a fixed presence in Nicaraguan politics for decades. Following the fall of longtime dictator Anastasio Somoza, Ortega became president in 1985, heading the leftist Sandinista National Liberation Front. With deep ties to Fidel Castro, he faced US opposition. The Reagan Administration supported a right-wing guerrilla movement aimed at bringing him down. After losing re-election in 1990, Ortega became a major opposition figure. Ortega finally won the presidency in 2006, riding the wave of leftist presidents in Latin America. He became a close friend and ally of Hugo Chavez. He has since changed tack, allying himself with the country's traditionally right-wing business community and clergy. Coupled with changes in electoral law, Ortega has prolonged and cemented his rule. In 2016, he barred international observers and nominated his wife as vice-president. The pair won the election, which was condemned by the opposition and criticized internationally by the US, OAS and the EU. In April 2018, Ortega announced a move to reform Nicaragua's pension system, saying that fiscal changes were needed. The reform sought to impose a 5 percent tax on retiree and disability pensions while increasing social security contributions by up to 22.5 percent. The move unleashed large-scale protests nationwide, which have been the biggest challenge Ortega has faced during his modern tenure. The pension plan was abandoned but protests continued, demanding Ortega's ouster. UN Human Rights experts denounced the state's harsh repression. As the death toll rose, Nicaragua's Catholic Church has demanded that Ortega allow international organizations entry to Nicaragua to help investigate the deaths and tried to set up talks between the opposition and the government. The opposition, comprised of students and a wide range of civil society groups, sat down with the government for a round of talks on May 16. The Clergy said the talks would be focused on "justice, democratization, and peace." The opposition's main demand: new presidential elections in 2019. The government rejected the demands and talks broke down. Bishops and priests in the strongly Catholic country have played a key role in the crisis. In addition to mediating the peace talks that stalled in June, the bishops have also seconded the call for new elections. Ortega has described the bishops as "coup-plotters" against him, and Catholic leaders have faced threats, harassment and attacks. Protesters have marched in support of the priests. University students have been the vanguard of the anti-Ortega movement. Many violent crackdowns have taken place on university campuses, often involving heavy gunfire. While the students say that paramilitaries loyal to Ortega are behind the shootings, the president denies that the armed individuals are under government control. He has also described the protesters as "terrorists" and "criminals." The death toll in four months of violence has risen to over 300 according to human rights activists, though the Ortega government says it's around 200. Protesters continue to take to the streets, describing torture, blacklists and job dismissals as repercussions for their demonstrations. In addition, the UN says over 20,000 people have sought asylum in Costa Rica in a crisis with no end in sight. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez Talks with Catholic Church fail Attempts to have clergy in the Catholic Church mediate the crisis have failed, Ortega said, accusing the country's bishops of supporting anti-government demonstrators. "We have bishops who have a real interest in securing peace in Nicaragua. There are others who are compromised," he said. Ortega added that the country's Bishops' Conference has been "contaminated as an institution" by the bishops who have voiced support for the protesters. In July, Ortega slammed the clergy for siding with "coup-plotters" and "terrorists," prompting further protests in support of the bishops. The Nicaraguan leader also said that despite the crisis, he won't be holding early elections in the country — which are slated to take place in 2021. The country's bishops support bringing the elections forward to next year in order to defuse tensions. In late August, a UN human rights report condemned Ortega's government for a violent crackdown on anti-government protesters that included illegal arrests, torture and closed trials. The UN human rights delegation was then immediately ordered to leave the country. DW's Carolina Chimoy contributed reporting. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31d4x