The "Bauhaus Imaginista" exhibition at the Garage Museum of Contemporary Art in Moscow examines the lives and work of former Bauhaus teachers and students who moved to Russia. It looks specifically at the complex connections between the Bauhaus School and the Soviet Union.  The exhibition is dedicated to a group of graduates and students who in 1930 followed Hannes Meyer, the second director of the Bauhaus School, to the Soviet Union. These loyal students included architect Philipp Tolziner, who spent the rest of his life in Moscow, and architect and city planner Konrad Püschel. That group also included architect Lotte Stam-Beese, the first woman to study in the construction department of the Bauhaus in Dessau. After introducing her designs to the western Russian city of Orsk in 1935, Stam-Beese moved from the Soviet Union to the Netherlands, where her plans to rebuild Rotterdam after World War II brought her international recognition. Read more: Anni Albers retrospective celebrates Bauhaus pioneer Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32Zmq Communist ideas and socialist ideals Through photographs, letters, collages, notebooks, diagrams, manifestos, architectural drawings and city maps, the exhibition explores the complex relationships between the architects and Bauhaus in Dessau, as well as with the Soviet Union and communist and socialist ideals. The Moscow exhibition takes place on the heels of an exhibition in Hangzhou, China titled "Bauhaus Imaginista: Moving Away."  Both exhibitions examine how the Bauhaus' universal design principles were developed, adapted, expanded or renewed in different cultural and political contexts. In 1919, Walter Gropius became the director of a new institution, the Staatliches Bauhaus, also simply known as the Bauhaus, which merged the former Grand Ducal School of Arts and Crafts and the Weimar Academy of Fine Art. Even though Gropius was an architect and the term Bauhaus literally translates as "construction house," the school of design did not have an architecture department until 1927. In a pamphlet for an April 1919 exhibition, Gropius stated that his goal was "to create a new guild of craftsmen, without the class distinctions which raise an arrogant barrier between craftsman and artist." Combining influences from modernism, the English Arts and Crafts movement, and Constructivism, Gropius promoted the idea that design was to serve the community. The most basic principle of the movement of the Bauhaus school was "form follows function." According to this idea, simple but elegant geometric shapes were designed based on the intended function or purpose of a building or an object. Illustrating this concept, the pieces of this chess game designed by Josef Hartwig (1923-24) are stylized to suggest how each of them moves and its rank of power. The interdisciplinary approach of the school's professors and students meant that visual arts, graphic design, architecture as well as product and furniture design all came into conversation with how people lived in the modern world. They thereby actualized the concept of the "Gesamtkunstwerk," or complete work of art. This photo shows the interior of the Bauhaus school in Dessau. The school had many major artists among its teachers. This photo from 1926 features, from left to right, Josef Albers, Hinnerk Scheper, Georg Muche, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Herbert Bayer, Joost Schmidt, Walter Gropius, Marcel Breuer, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Lyonel Feininger, Gunta Stölzl and Oskar Schlemmer. Hannes Meyer and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe were also directors of the school. Although the Bauhaus is associated with minimalist design, students and teachers invested an unsuspected amount of energy in creating surreal costumes for parties, as reported by Farkas Molnar in his 1925 essay, "Life at the Bauhaus." The parties began as improvised events but were later turned into large-scale productions, such as Oskar Schlemmer's "Triadic Ballet" from 1922 (photo). Political tensions led to different closures of the school. After being based in Weimar from 1919 to 1925, the Bauhaus moved to Dessau (picture). When the Nazis gained control of the city council there, the school closed again in 1932 and was reopened in Berlin. It was closed permanently in April 1933, pressured by the Nazi regime, which criticized the institution for producing "degenerate art." Even though the Bauhaus school was closed, different members of its staff kept spreading its idealistic concepts after they fled Germany. For example, many Jewish architects of the Bauhaus school contributed to the White City of Tel Aviv (picture), where a collection of 4,000 buildings were designed in the Bauhaus style. It is a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site. Though today people might most commonly associate modern, affordable, modular furniture with Ikea, the concept wasn't born in Sweden, but rather inspired by the classic works of Bauhaus designers. This photo shows tubular furniture designed by Marcel Breuer and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe from 1927 to 1930. The Bauhaus school will be turning 100 in 2019, but Germany is already revealing plans for its three-year celebratory program that will involve not only the three museums housed in the former schools in Weimar, Dessau and Berlin (picture), but also at least 10 of the country's 16 federal states will participate. Expect several exhibitions, events, publications — and even new museums. Author: Elizabeth Grenier Bauhaus: Reinventing the world The Bauhaus School wanted to redefine the relationship between education, art and society. This approach, reflected in Walter Gropius' 1919 manifesto, was shared with other movements in the 20th century, including those in Japan and Russia. These international applications are the focus of the exhibition and event program "Bauhaus Imaginista", which celebrates the 100th anniversary of the movement in 2019. It was organized by the Bauhaus Kooperation Berlin Dessau Weimar, the Goethe Institute and the House of World Cultures (HKW) in Berlin, as well as partners in eight countries. The exhibition was curated by Marion von Osten and Grant Watson. This year, four independently curated exhibitions were shown in China, Japan, Russia and Brazil, supplemented by lectures and talks in Morocco, the United States, Nigeria and India. From March to June 2019, a large-scale final exhibition of "Bauhaus Imaginista" will take place in Berlin's House of World Cultures. The Moscow exhibition runs until November 30.