The European Commission said on Tuesday that a probe will look into whether the German automakers BMW, Daimler, Volkswagen and VW units Audi and Porsche agreed not to compete with each other in developing and introducing technology to lower pollution from gasoline and diesel passenger cars. The Commission, which acts as the EU's antitrust watchdog, said it had received information that the five German automakers — the so-called "Circle of Five" — had held meetings to discuss limiting car exhaust emissions at the testing stages. Read more: Opinion: Cartel of cheats Der Spiegel magazine first published the allegations in 2017. The probe is focused on diesel emission control systems involving the injection of urea solution into exhausts to remove harmful nitrogen oxides. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2gly2 The probe is also looking at possible collusion over filters for cars with gasoline engines. "If proven, this collusion may have denied consumers the opportunity to buy fewer polluting cars, despite the technology being available to the manufacturers," said EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager. Read more: German Environment Ministry pushes for tough CO2 cuts, electric cars The Commission said there was no evidence the companies had colluded to develop so-called "defeat devices," computer software that illegally turns off emissions controls. It also said it did not see the need to look into other areas of cooperation among the automakers, such as quality and safety testing, the speed at which convertible roofs can open and at which cruise control works. The Commission can fine companies up to 10 percent of their annual turnover if it finds them to be in breach of EU competition rules. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. jbh/rr (dpa, AP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2rjUA