Facebook disclosed a security flaw on Friday affecting nearly 50 million Facebook accounts. The social media company said hackers exploited its "View As" feature which allows users to see what their profiles look like to other individuals using its platform. How has Facebook resolved the issue? Facebook said in a blog post that it "fixed the vulnerability and informed law enforcement." It has reset "access tokens" of the 50 million accounts affected by the breach, as well as a further 40 million accounts, as a precaution. Those 90 million users will need to log back into the platform as a result. Facebook said it is not necessary for users to change their passwords. The "View As" feature has been turned off as a precaution while a security review is conducted. Cybersecurity reporter Brendan Bordelon said on Twitter that Facebook "discovered the vulnerability Tuesday, notified the FBI and Irish DPA on Wednesday, fixed it on Thursday and notified us on Friday." Read more: EU to Facebook: Comply with laws or face sanctions 'Constant attacks' "We face constant attacks from people who want to take over accounts or steal information around the world," Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on his Facebook page. "While I'm glad we found this, fixed the vulnerability, and secured the accounts that may be at risk, the reality is we need to continue developing new tools to prevent this from happening in the first place." Five months ago, Zuckerberg admitted Facebook failed to protect user data and prevent manipulation of its platform after some 87 million users had their personal information harvested by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. Read more: Facebook usage 'fueled anti-refugee attacks in Germany' Facebook has been slammed for failing to protect the data of more than 50 million users. Their data was used to further conservative political projects, including Brexit and Donald Trump's presidential victory. From a former White House strategist to a Canadian whistle blower, here are the people involved in what some are describing as Facebook's largest data breach. A 28-year-old Canadian data analytics expert first blew the whistle on the scandal to Britain’s Observer newspaper. Christopher Wylie claims he set up the project for Cambridge Analytica and helped forge ties with Donald Trump’s campaign. He revealed that millions of profiles were hijacked to influence the election. Cambridge Analytica says Wylie has been "misrepresenting himself and the company." Cambridge Analytica CEO, Alexander Nix, was one of several senior executives filmed by an undercover reporter from Britain's Channel 4. Nix claimed credit for Donald Trump's 2016 electoral victory. He also said his political consultancy could feed untraceable messages on social media. Executives bragged that the firm could use misinformation, bribery and even prostitutes to help win elections. A Moldovan-born Cambridge University researcher developed a personality app that harvested the personal data of 30 million Facebook users. Aleksandr Kogan said he passed the information to Cambridge Analytica, under assurances that what he was doing was legal. But now he says the research firm and Facebook are scapegoating him over the scandal. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was criticized for waiting for four days to respond to the scandal. His social media network claims to be the victim of the whole saga, insisting it was unaware of how the data was being used. Still, Zuckerberg has been summoned by the British and European parliaments, while US consumer regulators have launched an investigation into the firm's use of personal data. Trump's former strategist Steve Bannon helped develop the populist, anti-Washington message that helped the billionaire win the White House. A founding member of right-wing outlet Breitbart News, Bannon is a former board member of Cambridge Analytica and brought in wealthy businessman Robert Mercer as a financial backer. He left the White House last August and Trump has since cut him off. Author: Nik Martin Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/kms (AP, dpa)