US President Donald Trump addressed the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday, giving a wide-ranging speech that touched on many of his favorite topics: national sovereignty, gains the US has made under his administration and Russia.  The president arrived significantly behind schedule for his speech, forcing organizers to change the order of speakers. Trump's top quotes America First, energy and Iran Trump spent the first few minutes of his speech talking up the US economy and sinking unemployment figures. He went on to praise his country's booming energy sector, before accusing OPEC countries of trying to bend the rest of the world to their will. During this portion of his talk he singled out Germany for, in his mind, relying too heavily on Russian natural gas. Trump talked up diplomatic success with North Korea, before slamming both Moscow and the Syrian government for atrocities committed against civilians in Syria. He then turned his ire to Iran, defending his decision to withdraw from the landmark 2015 nuclear deal and reimpose sanctions. He said Tehran must "change its tune" before Washington considers rolling back the sanctions. Trump further accused Iran of having a "bloody agenda" in Yemen and Syria, which is why the US was using "economic pressure" to deny Iran the money it needs to finance these operations. US to be 'aggressive' on sanctions Trump administration officials also upped their rhetoric against Iran in separate remarks in New York on Tuesday. In a strongly worded speech delivered to an organization that opposes the Iran nuclear deal, National Security Adviser John Bolton warned there would "be hell to pay" if Tehran crossed the US or its allies. He also vowed the US would be "aggressive and unwavering" in enforcing economic sanctions. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo likewise urged for the international community to join the US in taking action against what he described as "an outlaw regime." Iran slams Trump's 'authoritarian' policies Iranian President Hassan Rouhani criticized the Trump administration in his speech before the UN, saying Washington's decision to reimpose sanctions amounts to "economic terrorism." "The United States' understanding of international relations is authoritarian," Rouhani said. "In its estimation, might makes right. Its understanding of power, not of legal and legitimate authority, is reflected in bullying and imposition." Facing the prospect of US penalties due to sanctions, the European Union is currently working on setting up a legal entity to avoid penalties from US sanctions. The EU's foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said Monday that the system would allow companies to continue buying oil and conduct other business with Iran. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35Rma Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.