On Sunday, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan announced a plan to offer citizenship to Afghan and Bangladeshi refugees who were born in Pakistan. Khan told local media that Pakistan would will give passports and IDs to Afghans whose children have been raised in Pakistan and who were born there. "We will also give them citizenship," said Khan. If Khan's statement is translated to policy, around 1.5 million Afghans living in Pakistan would be granted Pakistani citizenship, Afghan minister of Refugees and Repatriations, Sayed Balkhi, told DW. According government estimates, around 2.7 million Afghans live in Pakistan. Most of these refugees fled their country after the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979. Since then, they have opened businesses, raised families and bought property in their new home, Pakistan. "I came to Pakistan 40 years ago with only six family members. Now my family has grown to 55 people," Malik Matiullah, a Peshawar-based Afghan refugee, told DW. "At least 49 of us could become Pakistani citizens," he added. Rights groups welcomed PM Khan's citizenship announcement A message of relief The move could put and end to the long uncertainty over the future of Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The refugee issue has often been used by Islamabad as a tool to put pressure on Kabul each time tensions between the two neighbors rise. Afghans living in Pakistan have especially faced a tougher stance from their host in recent years. Tense relations between Kabul and Islamabad have erupted with both sides blaming the other of providing sanctuaries for militants who carry out attacks on the other side of the border. "Whenever the two governments are not on good terms we face the consequences," Matiatullah said, adding that getting Pakistani identification documents will provide them with the certainty they have long been seeking. Islamabad has set many deadlines to expel all Afghan refugees, with the most recent one expiring on September 30. "If we get Pakistani citizenship, the police and army will not longer create problems for us and we will be able do business and live in peace," the Afghan refugee said. Khan's proposal could also provide relief to the Afghan government in Kabul, which deals with hundred of thousands of refugees returning from Iran and Pakistan each year, despite deteriorating security and a weak economy. Afghan diplomat Abdul Hamid Jalili believes that Pakistan could also benefit from the move. "The Pakistani economy could suffer if Afghan business owners take their money back to their country. This move would prevent such a scenario," Jalili told DW. Read more: Population census exposes Pakistan's harsh realities Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2tR6b Good news with unclear details According to Afrasiab Khattak, a senior member of Pakistan's Awami National Party and a former senator, Khan's plan could ease tensions between Kabul and Islamabad while paving the way for more cooperation. "Kabul has had complains about the treatment of Afghan refugees in Pakistan. Khan's plan could address those concerns," Khattak told DW. "But we have to wait and see how the plan is implemented," he added. There are many questions about whether Khan will actually turn his statements into policy, as many details remain unclear. What will happen to the parents of Afghan refugees born in Pakistan? How will the plan be implemented in tribal areas of Pakistan? Will the plan get any domestic support? Read more: Why Pakistan associates terrorism with Pashtuns and Afghans It is also unclear if Afghan refugees will be allowed to continue to retain their Afghan citizenship too. Pakistan's citizenship laws state that any child born in the country is eligible for citizenship, according to Khattak whose Awami National Party long campaigned for better integration of Afghan refugees. "Only citizens of enemy states [of Pakistan] and the children of Pakistan-based diplomats are exceptions to the law," added Khattak. How Khan will implement the law in regards to Afghan refugees, he said, depends on the current government's political will. Read more: Pakistan to deport 'Afghan Girl' for obtaining fake ID card Sayed Riaz and Shakila Ibrahimkhail contributed to this report. The International Organization of Migration (IOM) has reported that between 19 and 25 November, thousands of undocumented Afghan refugees returned to Afghanistan from Iran. The IOM said the mass-migration is being caused by deteriorating protection space in Iran. Here hundreds of Afghan refugees are seen crossing the border at Islam Qala, Herat Province in western Afghanistan. According to the IOM, 89 percent of the refugees deported between 19 and 25 November were individuals, out of which the majority were single men. Only seven single female deportees were registered during this time. Afghan migrants are facing harsh winter temperatures. The IOM provided post-arrival assistance to over 750 vulnerable groups from November 19-25. Included were 127 unaccompanied children, 80 people who needed medical assistance, and 15 unaccompanied elderly. According to the UN, last week 90,000 displaced people received humanitarian assistance and winterization support across Afghanistan. This man told DW that his legs were beaten with a spiked stick in Iran before he was deported. He said he had proper documents to work in Iran, but was sent back anyway. Mohammad Afkhami Rashidi, an official at the Iranian consulate in Herat, told DW that Iran has "no aggressive policies against Afghan refugees being deported" and only wants to "legally regulate the residence of foreigners." This unnamed deportee told DW that he was held at a detention center for 12 days and forced to work and pay for his departure. "It's cold and I am freezing," he said. "In the end I sold my phone and they let me out. Now I am here at the border and I do not even have money to drive to my own province." Afghan refugees say host countries use them as "political pressure." The UN said in a report that return rates are influenced by a "number of political and security factors" in Afghanistan and neighboring host countries. Iran, Afghanistan and the UN have an agreement saying that returns should be "voluntary, supportive and timely" and that "returnees" should have access to "basic services." The IOM estimates that in 2017, a total of approximately 560,000 Afghans could return from Pakistan and Iran. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said in a recent report that 900,000 internally displaced people are currently living in camps in inhumane conditions across Afghanistan and around 3.3 million Afghans will need humanitarian assistance next year. Author: Reza Shirmohammadi, Shoib Tanha Shokran