A member of the Saudi royal family says hundreds of thousands of jewels went missing from her suite at the Ritz Hotel in Paris, a police source said on Monday. The unnamed princess said the theft happened on Friday afternoon. The jewels had not been placed in the hotel safe and there was no sign of forced entry into princess's room. It was the second heist this year reported from the luxury five-star hotel which is located on Place Vendome in the heart of the French capital. In January, an armed gang used axes to smash the windows of shops in Paris 
Ritz , making off with several million euros worth of jewelry. Three suspects were arrested as they fled the scene. All of the stolen goods, some of which was dropped by the bungling thieves as they tried to escape, were recovered. Paris has been the scene of several other high-profile jewelry robberies and heists, including in October 2016 when American socialite and social media star Kim Kardashian West was robbed at gunpoint. She was tied up and locked in a bathroom after a gang of armed men burst into her Paris apartment, making off with around $9.5 million (9 million euros) worth of jewelry. Read more: Suspects arrested in Kardashian Paris robbery case A guard at the Paris Museum of Modern Art discovered the break-in while doing his morning rounds. Museum staff noticed that a window pane and a padlock had been broken. Surveillance cameras revealed a bundled up person climbing through a window in the museum. This painting by Amedeo Modigliani, "The Lady with the Fan," was among those missing. "Dove with Green Peas," painted by Spanish master Pablo Picasso in 2012 also disappeared from the Paris Museum of Modern Art on May 20, 2010. It was the most expensive of the five stolen works. Henri Matisse's "Pastoral" (1905) was also among the thief's bounty. Paintings as famous as these essentially cannot be sold because they would draw too much attention on the art market. Pierre Cornette de Saint-Cyr, director of the Palais de Tokyo, which hosts the Museum of Modern Art, simply said the thieves were "idiots" because the stolen works could not be sold. No collector would buy them. They have not surfaced since the theft. Among them is "Olive Tree Near Estaque" by Georges Braque (1907). The motion sensor in the museum hadn't been working for months. And the alarm system, which should have been set off when the window was broken, was also out of order. Apparently, the thieves didn't have many challenges to overcome - even though the museum had recently been outfitted with new security technology. Here, the police are securing evidence at the scene. The case was assigned to a special team of experts, but they still have not been able to locate the works. The thief, Vjéran Tomic, has not revealed who was behind the job, but has now been sentenced to eight years in prison. Author: Stefan Dege (kbm) kw/rc (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.