Australian cartoonist Mark Knight defended his depiction of tennis star Serena Williams at the US Open finals on Tuesday after receiving a wave of criticism calling his drawing racist and sexist. The cartoon depicts a fat-lipped, large-nosed Williams jumping on her tennis racket, with a baby pacifier nearby — perhaps referencing her status as a new mother or the artist's interpretation of her behavior on the court. In the background, the umpire leans over to a women ostensibly depicting tournament-winner Naomi Osaka — who is of Haitian-Japanese descent, although the cartoonist gave her long, blonde hair — asking: "Can you just let her win?" Knight hit back at critics, saying the cartoon was only about the "tantrum" Williams had during the US Open final. "That's what the cartoon was about, her poor behavior on the court," he told Australian broadcaster ABC. "Nothing to do about gender or racism at all." Melbourne's Herald Sun newspaper, which published the cartoon on Monday, said that they supported both Knight and the drawing. "Criticism of Mark Knight's Serena Williams cartoon shows the world has gone too PC & misunderstands the role of news media cartoons and satire," said Michael Miller, executive chairman of News Corp Australasia, which owns the Herald Sun. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34Zu3 'Jim Crow caricatures' Thousands of Twitter users and several US media outlets weren't buying Knight's more harmless interpretation of his cartoon. British author J.K. Rowling wrote on Twitter that the cartoon used "racist and sexist tropes" and turned Osaka into a "faceless prop." Numerous US media outlets and social media users also noted Knight's incorrect depiction of Osaka as a petite woman with straight blonde hair. The Haitian-Japanese tennis star is actually taller than Williams and has curly, dark hair with blonde highlights. The Washington Post ran a column about the cartoon, saying it resembled caricatures circulated widely during decades of racial segregation in the US. "Knight draws facial features reflecting the dehumanizing Jim Crow caricatures so common in the 19th and 20th centuries," commentator Michael Cavna wrote. The event that sparked the cartoon occurred during the US Open final on Saturday. Williams was given three code violations for receiving coaching, breaking her tennis racket and for calling the umpire a "thief." Williams criticized her treatment at the US Open as sexist, saying that men in tennis can get away with arguing or misbehaving on the court, whereas women are penalized. The World Tennis Association backed Williams on Monday, saying that men and women should be treated equally in the sport. rs/kms (AFP, dpa) US tennis legend John McEnroe was famed for his regular outbursts on the court - and one of the most memorable came in at Wimbledon in 1981. After a line-call, the volatile McEnroe smashed his racket on the ground (having already broken one) and screamed at the umpire: "Man, you cannot be serious!" After another call a few minutes later, he raged further: "You guys are the pits of the world!" A set, 5-6 and 15-30 down in the US Open semifinal, Serena Williams committed a foot fault, making the score 15-40 and giving opponent Kim Clijsters match point. Williams shouted at the line judge, who then reported that Williams had threatened to "kill her." The umpire called a code violation and awarded the match-winning point to Clijsters. Williams remains adamant she did nothing wrong. Tim Henman was often considered too nice to be ranked among the game's true greats, but he showed a nastier streak during the doubles tournament at Wimbledon in 1995. Frustrated after losing a point, Henman smashed a tennis ball which hit a ball girl in the head. He protested that it was an accident but, in true British sporting fashion, accepted he was responsible and was duly disqualified. Serbia's Viktor Troicki was furious at Wimbledon 2016 when the umpire judged opponent Albert Ramos' serve to be in, giving the Spaniard match point at 40-30. But Troicki, absolutely convinced the ball was out, screamed "What!?" at the umpire, before launching into a rage, calling the umpire "an idiot, the worst in the world! The worst ever! You didn't see anything today! You made 30 mistakes!" Australia's Nick Kyrgios is no stranger to controversy and suffered a complete meltdown at this year's 2017 Australian Open. Having lead 6-1, 7-6, he then lost his cool and spent the next three sets berating himself and his team, and proceeded to lose the match to Italian outsider Andreas Seppi. Screaming "What do you want me to say!?", the general response appeared to be: "Less." Ahead of a Fed Cup match between Germany and the USA in Hawaii, event organizers sang an out-dated, Nazi-era version of the German national anthem. Before the match a soloist sang the first verse of the "Deutschlandlied," beginning with the words "Germany, Germany, above all." The modern national anthem features the third verse only. Germany's Andrea Petkovic said it was "horrifying and shocking."