After leaving a trail of destruction through the Philippines, Typhoon Mangkhut was battering China on Sunday, with Hong Kong and Macau bearing the brunt of its force. Officials in Manila said that the storm had claimed at least 64 lives in their country, while two were confirmed dead in Hong Kong. Hong Kong authorities issued their highest storm signal, No. 10, despite the typhoon weakening slightly as it moved across the South China Sea. Freelance reporter James Ross told DW that "furiously high winds, torrential rain, and storm surges are hitting all the coastal areas" of Hong Kong. He said the territory had already seen major flooding in low-lying areas, roads and highways blocked by fallen trees and debris, and damage to buildings with windows smashed by the winds. China Central Television also reported surges as high as 3 meters (10 feet). Worst in many years "This seems like the worst typhoon I've experienced in 15 years here," Ross added. The South China Morning Post tweeted videos showing the intensity of the winds as they hit the city and nearby Lantau Island. Matt Bossons, editor-in-chief at the @thatsshenzhen website, tweeted a video of his Shenzhen hotel being flooded by coastal waters. Hong Kong international airport canceled most flights on Sunday, leaving tens of thousands of travelers stranded. Macau, meanwhile, shut all 42 casinos as the territory braced for a bad hit. Authorities there faced criticism last year, when Typhoon Hato left nine people dead and caused widespread damage. Elsewhere in China, tens of thousands of people were being evacuated to safer areas, amid predictions of severe storm surges along the coast. Read more: The world's deadliest hurricanes, typhoons and cyclones On Saturday, at least 64 people were killed as the typhoon tore through the Philippines' northern Luzon island, leaving floods and landslides in its wake. Police said at least 40 people, mostly gold miners, were feared trapped in a landslide, The Associated Press (AP) reported. A police official told AP that part of a mountain slope collapsed on the miners' bunkhouses in a small town in Benguet province. Seven bodies have been dug out by rescuers and an eighth body has been located but not yet retrieved. Mangkhut made landfall over the town of Baggao, 382 kilometers (237 miles) north of Manila, lashing Cagayan province and nearby areas with maximum winds of 205 kilometers per hour (km/h) and gusts of up to 285 km/h – the equivalent of a Category 5 "intense hurricane" in the Atlantic. Deadly landslides Philippine authorities said most of the dead got caught up in landslides in mountainous areas. Raging floodwaters struck Baguio City as Typhoon Mangkhut hit the Philippines on Saturday The heavy rains and fierce winds knocked out electricity and communication lines, while thousands of homes and business premises were torn down. "The landslides happened as some residents returned to their homes after the typhoon," disaster response coordinator Francis Tolentino told DZMM Radio, adding that 5.7 million people had been affected. Read more: Philippines' Duterte orders opposition senator be arrested Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte conducted an aerial inspection of the worst-affected region on Sunday. The Philippines, which is hit by about 20 typhoons a year, is considered one of the world's most disaster-prone countries. In 2013, Typhoon Haiyan left more than 7,300 people dead or missing. Coming in as the ninth most expensive city is China's capital Beijing. Housing prices have been steadily increasing there over the past decade and international school fees are also expensive. The Mercer cost of living ranking is compiled to help multinational companies create compensation strategies for expat employees. The strengthening of the Chinese yuan pushed Chinese cities up on the list. Shanghai is the most costly city on the Chinese mainland for expats and the seventh most expensive city overall. According to the website Expatistan, monthly rent for an 85 square-meter furnished apartment ranges from $2,170 to $1,200 (€1,800 - €1,030). Mercer said the rankings show "how currency fluctuation and shifts in the prices of goods and services" can affect expat purchasing power. The capital of South Korea is the fifth most expensive city for expats. Foreigners and South Koreans alike can agree that coffee in Seoul is expensive. On average, a cup of coffee costs $10 (€8.60). The average price of a pair of blue jeans is almost $150 (€130). Mercer's survey measures the comparative cost of more than 200 items including meals, housing, transportation and clothing. The Southeast Asian financial hub is the fourth most expensive city for expats and appears on many lists of the world's most expensive cities overall. You will pay more than $100 (€83) for jeans – double the price in New York. Gas is also expensive in the city-state, averaging over $2.00 (€1.70) per liter. The Japanese capital with a population of over 9 million is the second most expensive city for expats. However, Mercer said that Japanese cities fell overall in ranking due to the weakening of Japanese yen against the US dollar. Still, rent for a furnished 85 square-meter apartment will range from $3,500 to $2,700 (€3,000- 2,300). In 2018, Hong Kong was the most expensive city anywhere in the world for expats. According to Mercer, rent in this global business hub is at an all-time high, which is concerning for expats with families. Hong Kong also topped the list for gas prices and only Seoul has more expensive coffee. Non-Asian cities on the list included Bern and Zurich, Switzerland, N'Djamena, Chad and Luanda, Angola. Author: Ayu Purwaningsih mm,es/jm (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.