Canada's parliament on Thursday voted unanimously to strip Myanmar's de-facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi of her honorary Canadian citizenship, given in 2007 for her efforts building democracy. The motion introduced in the House of Commons comes after the parliament expressed its support for a motion adopted last week to recognize the Rohingya crisis in Myanmar as "an act of genocide." "Our government supported this motion in response to her continued failure to speak out against the genocide of the Rohingya, a crime being committed by the military with which she shares power," said Adam Austen, press secretary to Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland. Read more: Rohingya genocide: Will Myanmar generals face ICC justice? "We will continue to support the Rohingya people through humanitarian assistance, targeted sanctions against Myanmar's generals and by pushing for accountability for those responsible through an appropriate international body," he continued. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had told reporters on Wednesday that he was open to revoking Suu Kyi's citizenship but said doing so would not solve the crisis in Myanmar. Suu Kyi shared the Canadian honor with the likes of Nelson Mandela, the Dalai Lama, the Aga Khan and Malala Yousafzai. Rohingya began fleeing Myanmar to Bangladesh decades ago, resulting in the Kutupalong refugee camp near the southeastern city, Cox’s Bazar. But the camp population has increased dramatically since August 2017 and additional camps have been set up. Almost a million people now live in Kutupalong – a city almost the size of Cologne, but lacking the infrastructure. International flags were flying at the entrance to the Kutupalong refugee camp during the World Cup. Among the many Brazilian and Argentinian flags were also occasional German ones. Soccer fever was alive in other parts of the camp and in surrounding villages as well. The young community journalists were there to cover it, adding a touch of joy even in a time of crisis. Coping with extreme weather conditions is one of the hardest challenges. Cyclones threaten the camp in the spring, torrential rains take over during the monsoon season. Community reporters of the “Palonger Hotha” program offer listeners vital information for survival. This includes where to find bamboo sticks to reinforce shelters, and areas that need to be evacuated due to potential mudslides. Another goal of the radio program is to strengthen the way people see themselves, by taking their daily lives seriously. The reporter team, made up of young Rohingyas and local Bangladeshis, asks families, for example, how their lives are affected when they have to huddle together for hours, due to the weather conditions. The reporters look for constructive ideas that can inspire the listeners. One reporter, Sajeda, reported on “hanging vegetable gardens”, where beans are planted as a way to increase the food supply despite limited space. The reporters also look at household remedies for curing illnesses that, due to hygiene issues, spread during the rainy season. How can children learn to remember their way home? What can they do to not get lost in the refugee camp? And what are the challenges facing the camp’s Learning Centers? Education for the refugee children is of special concern to the reporter, Iqbal. There are so far no real schools for the children. The refugee camp lies along the migration route for the Asian elephants. Several camp residents, however, were killed in early 2018 when they tried to chase the elephants away. In response, the United Nations held a seminar showing how people should act when elephants approach. “Palonger Hotha” reporters covered this for their program. Unlike the new refugees, locals know from experience how to react if approached by an elephant: stay calm, don’t move, and the elephant will walk away on its own. DW Akademie trainer Trainer Andrea Marshall and translator Romana Akther Shanta learned this in July, on their way to the production of the 12th radio show. Some local Bangladeshis have found work connected to the refugee camp, but also complain that food prices have risen in the region since the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya. Green hills have since been logged because the refugees need space and firewood. This is why it is so important that the community radio program also covers the views of locals. Working together with local trainer Mainul Khan, the “Palonger Hotha” team learns how to deal carefully with potentially sensitive topics. The program does not cover politics. On the other hand, the UNHCR’s “Smart Card”, that is supposed to facilitate the (voluntary) return to Myanmar but which many Rohingya find suspicious, is well reported on. Traumatic experiences also mark the first anniversary of the mass exodus that began August 25. But at the same time, many people say they are starting to face their trauma – slowly, step by step. Author: Andrea Marshall The result of inaction Suu Kyi's failure to put a stop to the brutal military crackdown by Myanmar security forces and Buddhist mobs on the Rohingya Muslim minority has seen her widely condemned. The UN human rights chief has described the situation as a "textbook example" of ethnic cleansing. More than 700,000 Rohingya people in Myanmar's northern Rakhine State have fled the country to neighboring Bangladesh to escape the violence. Read more: Did UN 'self-censorship' aggravate Rohingya crisis in Myanmar? On September 19, the International Criminal Court (ICC) launched a preliminary probe into the mass exodus of Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar to Bangladesh. Earlier in September, the world's top court had said it had "jurisdiction over the crime against humanity of deportation allegedly committed against members of the Rohingya people." The Hague-based court's preliminary examination will collect further evidence before deciding whether a full investigation will be launched. law/sms (AFP, dpa, Reuters)