The mood in the suburban playground in Köthen on Monday morning was a mixture of sadness, tension, and hostility towards the press. A small number of locals in the town in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt came by, some with flowers to add to the pool that had collected around a tree near an empty climbing frame. This was the spot where a fight broke out on Saturday between two Afghan men and Markus B., which resulted in the 22-year-old German's death in hospital. By the evening, the area was a hive of activity. Köthen's police force, reinforced from across Germany, had much to contend with, when three gatherings took place within a few hundred meters of each other. First, the church in the central square held a small memorial prayer for Markus B., though Pastor Martin Olejnicki also used a brief sermon to call for peace in the city on what promised to be a nervy evening. That sentiment was shared by Saxony-Anhalt State Premier Reiner Haseloff, who attended the service along with about a hundred Köthen residents, who lined up to light a candle for the dead man. Outside the church, Haseloff told reporters, "I hope it will be a peaceful evening tonight, and that the rule of law will be left alone to do its work." "I think Köthen has already sent out a wonderful signal," the state premier added, "in that the church yesterday immediately called a sermon, and the people here showed that this is a peaceful town, that people here want to live in peace, and that these incidents cannot be instrumentalized." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34axR Definitely no Nazis here But Haseloff's statement seemed optimistic, given that a few dozen neo-Nazis had already gathered at a square couple of hundred yards away for their regular Monday demo — they were clustered around a PA system hooked to a car battery playing the Nazi-era first verse of the German national anthem. Despite this, and an abundance of facial tattoos and sports clothing by far-right-linked brands like Thor Steinar and Pro Violence, one of the speakers insisted this wasn't a neo-Nazi demo, and media reports to the contrary were the work of the "Lügenpresse" (lying press). That denial was repeated at the populist Alternative for Germany's (AfD) own "march of mourning" – from the town's central square to the playground – which was joined by some of the neo-Nazis from the Monday demo, swelling the numbers to a group of around 500. At the playground, a wreath was laid by a local AfD leader, who called on the marchers to disperse peacefully as soon as they had paid their respects. Despite the AfD's insistence that this was not a political event — and no speeches were held or AfD flags displayed — some of the demonstrators carried signs that said Saturday's death was "Merkel's integration" at work, or wore t-shirts that read "multiculturalism kills." Köthen lies around 160 km southwest of Berlin Far-right rise The incident had already raised fears of comparisons with Chemnitz two weeks ago — when another deadly fight triggered far-right demos and violence. But there were also calmer heads in Köthen on Monday. "It was in the major media outlets, and then it got round really quickly," said Dennis Krüger, a young man who was also paying his respects at the playground. "And it got bigger and bigger because of the Chemnitz thing, and I think if it hadn't been for what happened in Chemnitz it wouldn't have got so big in Köthen." Köthen's mayor, Bernd Hauschild, told DW his town would not become a "second Chemnitz." "There has always been solidarity between all parties here," he said. Read more: Chemnitz attack on Jewish restaurant — 'It is five past midnight' The demonstrations were sparked by a deadly brawl that broke out in the German city of Chemnitz in the early hours of Sunday (August 26). What started out as a war of words resulted in a 35-year-old man being stabbed to death. Hours later, spontaneous, anti-migrant protests took over the streets of Chemnitz. A German-Cuban man was stabbed in an altercation involving 10 people, several of whom were of "various nationalities," police sources said. The victim, named only as Daniel H., was apparently well-known among various political groups in the area. Two men in their 30s were also stabbed and seriously injured, and a 22-year-old Iraqi and 23-year-old Syrian are in custody over the killing. By Sunday afternoon, some 800 people had gathered to protest the man's death, including far-right groups. Authorities said the crowd was largely uncooperative and threw bottles at police officers. Police reinforcements had to be called in from nearby cities. The mobilizations were spontaneous and are thought to have surfaced following calls to demonstrate on social media. German authorities said that that far-right groups spread misinformation on the internet. Among the false claims was that the victim of the knife attack died protecting a woman. Thousands of far-right and counterdemonstrators faced off in a second day of protest Monday. Several people were injured as objects and fireworks were hurled. Video footage showed the far-right "Pro Chemnitz" movement holding a banner with a quote from early 20th century poet Anton Günther reading "German and free we aim to be." Counter-demonstrators denouncing right-wing extremism also took to the streets of Chemnitz. Among the protesters were Antifa, who clashed with right-wing demonstrators. Author: Louisa Wright However, some 2,500 people had taken part in a spontaneous protest the night before. Saxony-Anhalt Interior Minister Stahlknecht said that the number included a group of 400 to 500 "from the far-right scene," including some who had traveled from the neighboring states of Thuringia and Lower Saxony. It was these people, he said, who were responsible for far-right slogans and speeches heard on Sunday. Local police confirmed they are investigating several social media and press reports of neo-Nazi hate speech being used at the demo. One of these reports came from the taz newspaper, which said that David Köckert, leader of the far-right THÜGIDA movement from Thuringia, had made a speech in Köthen that included the passage: "This is a war, and you can really say that — a race war against the German people that is happening here and we have to defend ourselves from it. Do you want to stay like sheep that bleat, or do you want to become wolves that rip things up?" Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34X11 Anger in Köthen Interior Minister Stahlknecht and Justice Minister Anne-Marie Keding were at pains to point out in a press conference that the injuries Markus B. received in the fight had not themselves been life-threatening. He had "very likely" died of "acute heart failure" brought about by a pre-existing condition. The two suspects are now in custody, being investigated for grievous physical harm resulting in death. That news did nothing to assuage the anger of the people bringing flowers to the playground, some of whom were openly hostile to the handful of journalists gathered there. One man spat at a DW cameraman attempting to film him, sending him away with a sharp "next time there'll be trouble." Others were willing to talk to the press — but were no less angry. "I feel terrible," one young man, Clemens Bahn, told DW. "People who do something like this need to be put up against a wall and shot." Bahn, who said he had gone to school with Markus B., described him as "my best friend, a really nice, quiet guy." "It's awful he died so young," he added, before going over to the spot to stand alone for some time. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.