Marc-Andre ter Stegen — 4 The Barcelona goalkeeper was beaten at his near post by Luis Avincula in the first half, but made a strong double save off a corner in the second. If he wants to surpass Manuel Neuer and become Germany's number one, he cannot allow cheap goals. Read more: Marc-André ter Stegen ready to lead Barcelona Nico Schulz — 7 The Hoffenheim defender worked hard on his Germany debut, doing his best to stick with Peru's quick wingers. He was partly responsible for Avincula's goal, missing a tackle, but he made up for it by scoring the winner. Nico Schulz (middle) scored the game winning goal to complete Germany's comeback Jerome Boateng — 5 It was a rather uneventful game for the Bayern Munich man, but he didn't make any mistakes and stepped up to help Germany maintain possession. Niklas Süle — 6 He had problems dealing with a Peru counterattack in the second half, but did well in the air and handled both center back positions well. He is making a case to become a regular. Matthias Ginter — 7 Ginter had another strong showing on the right side of defense, and also put a powerful header from a corner on target. Joachim Löw's positional gamble seems to have paid off. Toni Kroos — 8 A terrific passing performance from Kroos once again, and the Real Madrid man also won some tackles in critical areas. Joshua Kimmich — 5 Playing in holding midfielder for the second straight game, Kimmich did well to help spread the ball around the field. But he was poorly positioned on Peru's counterattacks, the worst instance being on the visitor's goal. Ilkay Gündogan — 5 He combined well with Germany's forwards in the first half, but gave the ball away too cheaply at times. That said, the Manchester City midfielder played his midfield role much better than Leon Goretzka did against France. Read more: How Germany's players rated in their draw vs. France Julian Brandt (right) chips the goalkeeper to score the equalizer for Germany Julian Brandt — 8 He scored a spectacular goal, lifting the ball over Pedro Gallese to quickly erase Peru's one-goal lead. He was also a strong source of creativity, threading the ball through Peru's defense on multiple occasions. Marco Reus —6 The Borussia Dortmund man was much more involved against Peru than he was in the Nations League against France. However, he couldn't convert either of the golden chances he had in the first half. Timo Werner — 7 He made some intelligent runs behind Peru's defense and was very potent on the break, but like Reus, could not convert his chances. He was arguably Germany's most creative player during these internationals. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zdon Substitutes Antonio Rüdiger — 4 He used his pace well to prevent some breaks, but turned the ball over too cheaply in Germany's half. Julian Draxler — 4 The PSG man was largely invisible in his 45 minutes of work. He may be falling down the pecking order in Germany's midfield. Nils Petersen — 5 He had a chance to put Germany ahead after Gallese parried the ball poorly away, but his effort flew over the bar. He was otherwise absent from the game. Thilo Kehrer — 6 He also made his Germany debut and looked good on the right side of defense. Perhaps Löw may stick with the strategy of deploying a center back on the right flank. Kai Havertz and Thomas Müller — N/A Both players came on late in the game and did not have time to make an impact.