European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker tried to diffuse the tension between the EU and the UK after tough meetings in Austria led to fears that no Brexit deal could be reached. Juncker said on Friday that the negotiations for Britain's exit are beginning to resemble a prickly courtship. "We have to be careful, like two hedgehogs who love each other," Juncker said. "When two hedgehogs embrace, they have to watch out that they don't get scratched. "We're not at war with Britain," Juncker told the Austrian daily Die Presse, a day after British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit plan was largely rejected at an informal EU summit in Salzburg. May's proposal was seen as unworkable and unacceptable by the bloc's remaining 27 members. Read more: Brexit Diaries 45: I'm doing it my way, says Theresa May Juncker cautioned that the situation between Britain and the EU should not be "overdramatized." Britain "will remain an important partner in trade and security for the EU," Juncker said. EU Council President Donald Tusk called the UK's stance "surprisingly tough and in fact uncompromising," but "we decided that for the good of the negotiations, and out of respect for the efforts of PM May, we will treat the [UK government's ] Chequers plan as a step in the right direction. "I remain convinced that a compromise, good for all, is still possible," he added. 'No deal is better than a bad deal' British Prime Minister Theresa May, however, signaled her defiance at the EU leaders' rejection of her Brexit proposal. "At this late stage of the negotiations, it is not acceptable to reject the other side's proposals without presenting alternatives," May said in a televised speech. "Throughout this process, I have treated the EU with nothing but respect. The UK expects the same. A good relationship at the end of this process depends on it." She noted that she will not accept Northern Ireland remaining in the EU customs union while the rest of the UK would be out of it, saying "it would mean breaking up our country." The Irish border question is one of the most difficult issues in Brexit negotiations. Read more: The Irish border — what you need to know May also reiterated that "no deal is better than a bad deal." Britain's response to Irish demands for independence was devolution within the UK, or home rule. Pro-British Unionists didn't want to be governed by Dublin, so two parliaments were set up, for Northern and Southern Ireland. However, nationalists still pushed for full independence and in 1922 Southern Ireland was superseded by the Irish Free State as enshrined in the Anglo-Irish Treaty (pictured). Northern Ireland had been carved in a way that allowed Protestant loyalists to stay in control, but also ensure the region was large enough to be viable. It included four majority-Protestant counties in the ancient province of Ulster, as well as the two Catholic nationalist counties. Three of Ulster's counties — Donegal, Monaghan and Cavan — were placed on the Southern Ireland side of the border. Involving members of the British, Irish and devolved Belfast governments, a 1924-25 boundary commission looked at the whether the border should stay where it was. It broadly remained in the same place, often cutting through communities across its 310 miles. The Spike Milligan novel "Puckoon," made into a film (above), charted the problems brought to a fictional Irish village divided by the border. The new border's checkpoints initially regulated the movement of certain goods, with movement of people being free. However, the Anglo-Irish Trade War of the 1930s saw tariffs imposed on foods and later coal and steel. The dispute ended in 1936, but Ireland still pursued protectionist policies into the 1950s. Customs stayed in place until the advent of the EU Single Market in 1993. With an escalation in fighting in Northern Ireland in 1969, British troops were sent to the province, fueling nationalist resentment. The border was heavily guarded to stop weapons smuggling from the Republic. The South Armagh stretch was particularly notorious. The Irish Republican Army's South Armagh Brigade is thought to have killed about 165 British troops and police from 1970 to 1997. The border was also policed by the Republic of Ireland's security forces, who intensified their anti-terror efforts in the late 1970s. They worked with the British, but the working relationship was not an easy one. To communicate with Irish counterparts, British troops at one time had to speak to the Northern Irish police, who would contact the Irish police, who would then call the Irish army. Despite the end of customs in 1993, the threat of terror still loomed and the border remained militarized, with watchtowers and soldiers. After the 1998 Good Friday Agreement — which brought back devolved government to Northern Ireland and sought to address issues such as policing and paramilitarism — the IRA eventually halted its campaign of violence as border security disappeared. The border today is as invisible as it has ever been, with free movement of traffic between the Republic and the North. The picture shows two policemen, one British, one Irish, watching as a foreign leg of the 2014 Giro d'Italia crosses the border in Armagh. There are fears that Brexit would make a hard border necessary, given that Britain appears set to leave the EU Customs Union and Single Market. The border issue is one of three conditions laid out by the EU for trade talks to begin. Brussels says there must be no hard border. Campaigners, like those pictured above, have sought to remind the public of what such a frontier would look like. Author: Richard Connor Under pressure Upon returning from the summit, May was met with criticism from several British newspapers. "May humiliated," said London-based The Guardian newspaper, while Daily Mirror wrote "Your Brexit's broken." However, some newspapers and media outlets took aim at EU leaders. Read more: Brexit deadlock: Theresa May urges EU to compromise The Sun, considered the UK's best-selling newspaper, wrote: "EU dirty rats — Euro mobsters ambush May." The headlines have highlighted the predicament May is in as she faces pressure at home — and from within her party — to deliver on Brexit. ls, es/ng (Reuters, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35GkB Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.