Thousands of people came to Ahvaz's Sarallah mosque to pay their respects to the 24 victims of an attack on a military parade to mark the start of the Iran-Iraq war in 1980 in the southwestern Iranian city on Saturday. It was Iran's deadliest terror attack for a decade. Civilians and military staff were seen carrying coffins draped in the Iranian flag. Mourners carried pictures of the dead along with banners reading "We will stand to the end" and "No to terrorism." Many chanted "death to Israel and America," both of which Tehran sees as part of an alliance acting against Iran. 'Devastating' response Meanwhile on Monday, the deputy head of Iran's elite military organization, the Revolutionary Guards,  warned the US and its allies that Tehran was prepared to retaliate. "You have seen our revenge before ... You will see that our response will be crushing and devastating and you will regret what you have done," Hossein Salami said in a speech before the funeral of the victims, broadcast live on TV. Read more: Attack on Iranian military parade may harden domestic and regional policies US President Trump signed an executive order on August 5 aimed at piling financial pressure on Tehran to force a "comprehensive and lasting solution" to Iranian threats, including its development of missiles and regional "malign" activities. Trump warned that those who don't wind down their economic ties to Iran "risk severe consequences." The first phase, which took effect on August 7, targets the Islamic Republic's access to US banknotes, making transactions in a US-dollar dominated financial world difficult. A ban on Iran purchasing precious metals including gold further serves as an attempt to cut the country off from global markets. Phase one also hits key industries including the purchase of commercial planes, cars and carpets. Iranian imports of graphite, aluminum, steel, coal, gold and some software are also affected. German automaker Daimler called off the production and sale of Mercedes-Benz trucks in Iran indefinitely after the sanctions came into force. A second phase of sanctions — which is due to take effect on November 5 and will block Iran's oil sales — is due to cause more damage. Several countries, however, including China, India and Turkey have indicated they are not willing to entirely cut their Iranian energy purchases. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the United States had launched "psychological warfare" against Iran to create division amongst its people. But he insisted that Iran still can rely on its allies China and Russia to keep its oil and banking sectors afloat. He has also demanded compensation for decades of American "intervention" in the Islamic Republic. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc is encouraging small and medium enterprises to increase their business with Iran. She said Tehran has been compliant with their nuclear-related commitments. The EU issued a "blocking statute" to protect European businesses from the impact of the sanctions. Author: Keith Walker On Sunday, Iranian Prime Minister Hassan Rouhani blamed the US for instigating its allies in the Middle East to carry out the attack, which was claimed by the al-Ahvazieh militant group. He did not name any country in particular, but his remarks likely refer to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates or Bahrain. The UK, the Netherlands and Denmark have also been accused by Iran of aiding terror in Iran and its ambassadors have been summoned. The German Foreign Ministry on Monday condemned the attack but warned that retaliation could lead to further escalation. The spokesperson also said no one from the German Embassy had been summoned by Tehran. Read more: German firms lead exodus out of Iran The latest row between the US and Iran adds to already tense relations after US President Donald Trump decided to exit the 2015 international Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), also known as the Iran nuclear deal, and renewed US sanctions on Iran. ng/rt (AP, Reuters, AFP) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.