North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un has sent a letter to US President Donald Trump suggesting scheduling another meeting. "The president has received the letter from Kim Jong Un. It was a very warm, very positive letter," said White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders, adding that the message showed Pyongyang's "continued commitment to focus on denuclearization" on the Korean Peninsula. "The primary purpose of the letter was to schedule another meeting with the president, which we are open to and are already in the process of coordinating," she said. Trump and Kim met in Singapore earlier this year in June and although they signed a document, it has not produced the sorts of breakthroughs in denuclearizing the Korean peninsula that analysts hoped for. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump shake hands as they meet for the first time. Unlike in past meetings with some world leaders, Trump did not try to pull Kim's hand towards him or hold on to the North Korean leader's hand too long. Trump and Kim appeared at ease with one another during the summit. Just a few months prior, Trump and Kim engaged in a war of words, trading insults like "little rocket man" and "mentally deranged." Following their meeting, Trump said he formed a "special bond" with Kim and that he'd like to invite him to the White House. Kim lays a hand on Trump's back as they leave after signing a joint statement pledging peace negotiations and denuclearization. Some critics worried that the US agreed to give up too many things in negotiations with Kim. At a press conference, Trump said he wanted to stop US military exercises with South Korea and eventually withdraw US troops — something Pyongyang has been demanding for years. Trump displays the joint agreement he signed with Kim. In the four-point document, Kim agreed to the "complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." In exchange, Trump agreed to provide "security guarantees" to Pyongyang. The two leaders also agreed to build a "robust peace regime" and to return the remains of prisoners of the 1950-1953 Korean War. South Koreans watch the summit on a screen located at a train station in Seoul. Ahead of the event, critics expressed concern that the meeting between the two leaders would be purely symbolic and not bring concrete progress to easing tensions. Indeed, the agreement did not specify what exact measures would be taken. A bartender in Singapore crafted a special drink for the summit, dubbed "The Bromance." The meeting was held on Singapore's Sentosa island, a resort area with luxury hotels and a theme park. The island's security was massively increased ahead of the summit, while local businesses marked the occasion with special Trump-Kim branded water and drinks. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with dpa, AFP) On Sunday, North Korea held a military parade which for the first time did not feature ballistic missiles in the parade. av/rc (AFP, Reuters)