Private companies and public authorities logged almost 560 million sick days in 2016, according to data provided by the German government in response to an inquiry by the Left party. The number of sick days taken by workers in Germany rose by 60 percent between 2008 and 2016, reported German newspaper Rheinische Post on Friday, citing the government figures. The missed days dealt a blow to the economy, with the government estimating the resulting economic damage amounted to €75 billion ($88 million) in 2016. The report noted that the government's economic loss estimate didn't take price development into account. Still, even after the figure was adjusted for inflation, the Ministry of Health said there had been a 30 percent increase in economic losses over the past 20 years due to rising sick leave. Mental health issues skyrocket The data showed that stress, time pressure and shift work are among the factors in the workplace that also take their toll on employees' mental health. Between 2008 and 2016, the number of sick leave cases related to psychological issues "exploded" by 125 percent, according to the Rheinische Post. However, the most common reason why people were written off sick in recent years was due to back pain and other muscular-skeletal problems. The data also showed a 60 percent increase in sick days related to such cases. Women more often called in sick than men, the data showed. According to Rheinische Post, women also called in sick to take care for their children — which likely points to an imbalance in child care expectations that impacts working mothers more than working dads. The health of Germans is at its lowest in history, according to a new report that found just under nine percent of the population follow a 'completely healthy' lifestyle. And the problem is a lack of movement. On average, Germans spend 7.5 hours sitting per day. But it's not just them who are leading sedentary lives - the world over, people are spending too much time perched on their behinds. In recent years, sitting has been dubbed the 'new smoking' because of the seriousness of its public health risks. While not all scientists agree that it should be put in the same category as smoking, over the past 15 years too much time spent on one's backside has been linked to serious health issues, like low blood pressure, poor circulation, cancer, heart disease and diabetes. But sitting in the office chair at work is not as strongly linked to long term health risks as sitting watching television is. Spending too much time in front of the telly has been consistently linked to an early death, type 2 diabetes and heart disease. Women who spend more time sitting down as they age are at higher risk of becoming frail, according to new research from the University of Queensland in Australia. That means they’ll be less likely to recover from illnesses or injuries. But researchers also found the damage could be reversed - so up you hop! It's not too late to reduce the effects of too much time spent on your butt. Scientists say, as your total sitting time increases so does your risk of an early death. But if you sit for less than 30 minutes at a time, you could reduce your risk of kicking the bucket too soon. For every 30 consecutive minutes you sit, try to match it with moving and walking for at least five minutes. For office workers, sitting seems to be an unavoidable part of the day. Unless, of course, you write those emails on your feet. Adjustable desks that allow a sitting and standing option have become standard in many workplaces around the world. But the research shows they aren't the best solution - because even if you're standing, you don't expend much energy while staying in the one spot. Sitting will not undo the benefits of exercise, but the less time you spend sitting down the better. Health experts say it's important for us to move as often as possible, and increase our heartrates in the process - the World Health Organization recommends doing 150 minutes of moderate activity per week or 75 minutes of vigorous activity. Author: Charli Shield German government sees positive trends Although the figures appear to point to unhealthy trends in the workplace, the German government believes otherwise. In their response, officials noted that mental health issues are more often diagnosed than in previous years as society has grown to accept and discuss mental health conditions. They also noted that the rise in sick days is also due to there being more people in the German workforce than in previous years and because the workforce is getting older. "More people than ever before are working in Germany, so naturally the number of sick days goes up. Older employees, in particular, are out from work statistically longer," a spokesman for the Confederation of German Employers' Associations (BDA) told Rheinische Post. Some politicians aren't buying the government's reasoning, saying that the data indicates glaring problems in labor practices in Germany. "Employees shouldn't be treated like spare parts," Left party politician Jutta Krellmann said, adding that workers are being encouraged to deliver more, on tighter schedules, with less job security." Such working conditions deliver record profits, but lead to employees burning out physically and mentally," she added. How sick leave works in Germany Unlike in some other countries, most workers in Germany do not have a set number of sick days per year that they are allowed to use. In Germany, a doctor's note is only required if an illness forces a person to miss more than three consecutive days of work. Employers are also legally required to pay 100 percent of their employees' wages for the first six weeks. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2X7Qb 