Deutsche Welle's Broadcasting Board on Friday September 28, 2018 unanimously re-elected Peter Limbourg to head the media organization in the first round of voting for another six years. He was first appointed director general of Germany's international broadcaster on October 1, 2013. The board's chairman and commissioner of the German Catholic Bishops Conference, Karl Jüsten, praised Limbourg's achievements of the past years. "In his first term as director general, Peter Limbourg undertook decisive changes and urgently necessary innovations that were essential to secure DW's future amid international competition. Germany's international broadcaster is now better positioned than it ever has been and has gained enormously in journalistic significance. The Broadcasting Board is delighted to continue accompanying Peter Limbourg in his successful work," Jüsten said. In reply, the director general thanked the board "for the great trust expressed by the vote," calling it "an outstanding basis for internationally advancing DW even further in the years to come." Limbourg also thanked management and staff at DW for good and successful cooperation during his first term. Read more: Peter Limbourg: 'We are the voice of all of Germany' International experience Before joining DW, Peter Limbourg worked as a correspondent in Leipzig in the former GDR and in London, before becoming a correspondent for SAT.1 in Brussels in 1990. In 1996 Limbourg became the head of ProSieben's studio in Bonn, and in 1999 he co-founded and was appointed co-editor-in-chief of N24. From 2008 until 2010 Limbourg was the news channel's sole editor-in-chief. After leaving N24, he served as Senior VP News & Political Information of ProSieben Sat.1 TV Germany. From 2008 until 2013 he was also the head news anchor of SAT.1. Born in Bonn in 1960, Limbourg grew up in Rome, Paris, Athens and Brussels. He is married and has three children. Read more: Deutsche Welle marks 65th anniversary Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zJi0