The man at the center of a sex abuse and financial crimes scandal that has rocked the Swedish arts academy that awards the Nobel Literature Prize could face three years in jail if prosecutors' demands are met. Arnault, a well-known cultural figure who is married to Swedish Academy member Katarina Frostenson, became the subject of multiple sexual assault allegations when 18 women publicly accused him of harassing or raping them in Sweden's Dagens Nyheter newspaper last November. He is currently on trial for two counts of rape of a woman in 2011. Read more: Nobel literature scandal deepens as Jean-Claude Arnault is charged with rape Prosecutor Christina Voigt says Arnault, a French citizen, should be held in custody because "there is a risk he might leave the country." Speaking Monday after closing remarks at the three-day trial being held behind closed doors in Stockholm, Voigt also demanded that Arnault be sentenced to three years in prison. The verdict is expected to be announced on October 1 after testimonies by the alleged victim and seven witnesses have been presented at the trial. Arnault's lawyer Bjorn Hurtig told reporters he "reacted with dismay" and shock after Monday's closing remarks at the trial. He said Arnault was immediately taken away to the Kronoberg prison in Stockholm. Until this year, the Swedish Academy's 18 members technically held the position for life. That changed when three group members stepped down in protest against the Academy membership of poet Katarina Frostenson, whose husband is accused of sexual harassment. Academy secretary Sara Danius (photo) and Frostenson also left shortly afterwards, leading to the decision to postpone the 2018 award. While the famous author of "The Satanic Verses" never won the Nobel Prize in Literature, some members of the Swedish Academy felt their organization should denounce Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's fatwa calling for Salman Rushdie's assassination in 1989. The Academy refused to do so, and three members resigned in protest. He became the first singer-songwriter to obtain the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2016, shocking quite a few literature purists. Then Dylan didn't even seem that interested by the recognition. He didn't show up at the awards ceremony and simply sent a brief thank-you speech instead of the traditional Nobel lecture. He finally collected his prize in Stockholm in March 2017. Thomas Mann received the prize in 1929, but it wasn't for his most recent work, "The Magic Mountain" (1924), which the jury found too tedious. The distinction instead recognized his debut novel, "Buddenbrooks" — published 28 years earlier. Time had apparently added to its value. The jury said, it "has won steadily increased recognition as one of the classic works of contemporary literature." When she was honored with the prize in 2004, Austrian author Elfriede Jelinek also refused to go to the awards ceremony. "I cannot manage being in a crowd of people. I cannot stand public attention," the reclusive playwright said. The Swedish Academy had to accept her agoraphobia, but she did, at least, hold her Nobel lecture — per video. The Soviet author, world famous for his novel "Doctor Zhivago," obtained Nobel recognition in 1958. However, Soviet authorities forced him to decline the prize; he wouldn't be able to re-enter the country if he went to the Stockholm ceremony. Even though he followed his government's orders, he was still demonized afterwards. His son picked up the award in 1989, 29 years after the author's death. When Italian comedian and playwright Dario Fo won the prize in 1997, the announcement came as a shock to many literary critics, who saw him as just an entertainer and not a real literary figure with an international standing. The satirist fired back with his Nobel speech, which he titled "Against jesters who defame and insult." Although British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1945, he actually obtained the award for his written works — mostly memoirs, history volumes and speeches — in 1953. The jury praised "his mastery of historical and biographical description as well as for brilliant oratory in defending exalted human values." The French philosopher and playwright was awarded the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature, but he declined it, saying that "a writer should not allow himself to be turned into an institution" by accepting official honors. It was rumored that he later asked for the prize money anyway — but that story was never confirmed. Winning the award in 1907 at the age of 41, British author Joseph Rudyard Kipling, best known for "The Jungle Book" (1894), remains the youngest Nobel laureate in literature to this day. However, his legacy has since been marred by the fact that Kipling, who spent his early childhood and some of his adult life in India, vehemently spoke out in defense of British colonialism. Author: Silke Wünsch (eg) #MeToo prompts internal investigation While Arnault has denied the rapes and other sex abuse allegations, the scandal prompted eight academics to de facto resign from the Swedish Academy, a post that had previously been awarded for life. Faced with the outcry further fueled by the #MeToo movement, the committee decided to postpone awarding the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2018 and will award two in 2019 instead. The head of the academy has also resigned. Read more: How a #MeToo scandal is rocking the Nobel literature academy Arnault was also suspected of violating century-old Nobel rules by leaking names of winners of the world-renowned literature award up to seven times, starting in 1996 — through no investigation has been opened into those allegations. The allegations caused Frostenson to quit the Swedish Academy, an institution that has been accused of having patriarchal leanings after it was alleged that Arnault had abused female members of the Academy, in addition to his own employees and the daughters of academic colleagues. The Academy's own internal investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations that was released in April indeed found that "unacceptable behavior in the form of unwanted intimacy" has taken place within its ranks. sb/eg (AP, dpa)