This year's UN global climate talks in Katowice, Poland are being billed as the most important Conference of the Parties (COP) since Paris in 2015, when the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change was agreed upon. In the French capital, almost 200 countries pledged to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). How the world's nations will actually do that is supposed to be decided in Katowice this year. Member states are expected to adopt a rule book outlining how countries monitor their greenhouse gas emissions and report their climate protection efforts, as well as how much money industrialized nations will give to poorer countries to help them reduce their emissions and adapt to a warmer world. Droughts are hitting farmers around the world, prompting some to turn to drought-tolerant crops Climate diplomats have spent years drafting the rules. Their last working session before the upcoming COP24 in Katowice closed in the Thai capital, Bangkok, on Sunday. With mixed results. Negotiators agreed on issues of transparency, compliance and the Global Stocktake — a comprehensive assessment of how much progress has been made every five years. But contentious issues remain unresolved. And climate finance is the big one. Read more: Footing the bill for a global crisis $100 billion climate commitment Industrialized nations have been responsible for around 80 percent of emissions over the last 150 years. But it's those who live in poor countries in the global South who are suffering most from climate change. Under the Paris Agreement, richer countries committed to helping poorer ones cope with the changing climate and develop their own economies without the intensive use of fossil energy that fueled the global North's rise to dominance. But so far, they haven't been paying up as pledged. Industrialized nations agreed to spend a total of $100 billion (€86 billion) per year — including funds and development aid — on climate protection in poorer countries. Part of that sum was to be made available through the UN Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund, which aims to make economies in developing countries more climate-friendly while also supporting adaption efforts. Read more: Climate talks: The power of the world's least powerful countries More than $10 billion was pledged to the Green Climate Fund, of which $3.5 billion has been paid so far. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33bqx Make or break Developing countries want developed ones to ramp up their spending and report on the extent to which they have met their pledges every two years, so they can predict how much money is coming. Developed nations argue that their budgetary rules make this difficult. Read more: Paris Agreement: What needs to happen for climate action to succeed? Gebru Jember Endalew, chair of the Least Developed Countries (LDC) Group, which consists of the 48 poorest nations signed on to the UN's climate framework (UNFCCC), says climate finance is a make-or-break question for many developing countries. "The Paris Agreement cannot be implemented without climate finance," he said in a statement. "The failure of rich countries to deliver adequate resources has severe ramifications for people and communities in the Least Developed Countries and around the world that are already bearing the brunt of climate change on a daily basis," he added. Read more: Fossil fuels dominate African energy investment Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33f66 Climate finance is 'not a handout' Money has always been a contentious issue at climate talks. But President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw the United States, a major donor country, from the Paris Climate Agreement has created a lot of uncertainty and badly shaken confidence among developing countries that rich nations will stick to the deal. Adding to that, industrialized countries have been campaigning for a broad range of financial contributions to count as climate finance, including bilateral aid. Developing countries reject this. Climate finance isn't charity, it's about justice, they say. "Climate finance is not a handout," Amjad Abdulla, chief negotiator for the Alliance of Small Island States at the United Nations, said. "Developed countries are responsible for the vast majority of historic emissions, and many became remarkably wealthy burning fossil fuels. Small islands, by contrast, have contributed an almost immeasurably small fraction of global emissions. Yet, we face devastating climate impacts and some of us could be lost forever to rising seas," he added. Read more: Indigenous women show the way for banks to divest from fossil fuels Some 10,500 firefighters were called to tackle forest fires in California in 2015. They were unable to prevent 1,400 homes from destruction. The blaze was fueled by hot and dry weather - as a result of climate change. The polar bear has become a symbol of climate change, as its habitat is threatened by global warming. The Arctic predator hunts from ice sheets that are fast disappearing. As the ice retreats, they are unable to stalk their prey, and risk starvation. By 2050, scientists warn that the Arctic could be ice-free in summer. Just visible from the air is a little wood hut on the island of Spitzbergen in Norway. It is home to the Arctic research base where French and German scientists are studying climatic and atmospheric changes in the polar region, including the damage done to permafrost and glacier systems. A goat watches a mountain expedition on the Swiss Aletsch Glacier, a UNESCO World Heritage site. It was around a kilometer longer in 1860 than it is today. Due to global warming, the glacier is shrinking by up to 50 meters per year. With the rate of retreat increasing, scientists fear Europe's biggest glacier could disappear altogether. … the landscape looks peaceful, bathed in a mystical light. But the actual situation is far more unsettling. This aerial view shows Central Luzon in the Philippines, completely flooded after it was hit by a typhoon and heavy rain. People were drowned or buried under landslides, and half a million were forced to flee their homes. The country is hit by 20 typhoons each year. … escape is all that's left. The World Bank warns that if global warming continues unimpeded, another 100 million people will be under threat. Poor people in parts of Africa and South Asia are at particular risk. Drought and flooding threaten crops - leading to hunger, disease and high food prices. Climate change often hits children the hardest, through no fault of their own. Studies have found that economic problems exacerbated by drought can have profound social impacts, such as in an increase in child marriages, for example. Families may marry off their underage daughters earlier to have fewer mouths they have to feed. Elephants produce huge quantities of manure. At Munich's Hellabrunn Zoo in Germany, one local utility is turning their waste into electric power. Around 2,000 tons of biowaste provides enough power for a hundred homes. Could this be a model for an African school? In any case, climate change is forcing new ways of thinking in the search for green energy. The Rhine River is Europe's busiest waterway for shipping - but climate change is affecting business. Ongoing drought means shipping firms would be forced to use shorter vessels that can navigate shallower waters. If ships aren't able to set off, more goods have to be transported by road - which is more expensive. Healthy coral reefs are like a blooming garden. But global warming is bleaching the life out of them. Corals have a symbiotic relationship with algae, which are vital to their health. But as the water heats up, they expel the algae. If warmer water temperatures persist, a lack of nutrients calcifies the corals, which makes their color fade and causes the organisms to die. Global warming also has its benefits. In recent years, wine is being produced on Germany's northernmost island, Sylt. Ever more vineyards are being established at higher altitudes and further north - even Scandinavia now has some. Global warming also means earlier harvests and sweeter grapes. Author: Karin Jäger / rr, ng Experts agree there needs to be a shift in how the international community perceives climate finance. After all, investments in climate protection in poorer countries benefit everyone. However, the debate about what counts as climate finance and what doesn't is "complicating matters," Jennifer Tollmann, climate diplomacy expert at the think tank E3G, argues. "The reality is that we are no longer only dealing with traditional climate finance. The structural transformations we need to see will require massive amounts of private finance as well," she said. Besides governments paying for climate change adaption, there is the question of how to get private investors and companies to invest in climate-friendly initiatives and sustainable infrastructure, such as renewable energy systems. "We certainly want to see donor countries meet their $100 billion goal and to replenish the Green Climate Fund in the future, but we also need to figure out how to leverage private finance and 'shift the trillions'," Tollmann said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32nIP Next steps The climate talks in Bangkok ended with more than 300 pages of draft text , and no decision on climate finance. Lead negotiators now have less than three months to streamline the draft before they hand it over to national diplomats in Katowice, who will then have five days to wrangle over technical details before ministers step in to make final decisions. Rixa Schwarz, climate policy expert at NGO Germanwatch, observed the talks in Bangkok. She says real political will and commitment from political leaders in developed nations is essential. "Industrialized countries need to ensure reliable climate financing so that climate protection as well as adaptation can be made possible around the world," Schwarz said. Ahead of COP24, climate leaders will meet at events including the Global Climate Action Summit in San Francisco from September 12 to15, Climate Week NYC at the end of this month and the Green Climate Fund board meeting in October. Observers hope to see some sign that politicians, civil society and the private sector are serious about climate protection — and coughing up the money to make it possible. But few expect the thorny debate over climate finance to be resolved in time for the global climate talks in Katowice. Copenhagen wants to become the world's first carbon-neutral capital by 2025. Since 1995, it has reduced its carbon emissions by half. It stands out for its efforts on sustainable mobility, with large car-free zones, high quality public transport and impressive cycling facilities. District heating and cooling systems – some of which use cold seawater – do their bit to reduce emissions, too. The Icelandic capital already has a renewable supply of heat and electricity – mainly from hydropower and geothermal. An impressive 95 percent of homes are connected to the district heating network. The city is also aiming to make all public transport fossil-free by 2040 and strongly encourages residents to do without their cars. In Brazil's eighth biggest city, around 60 percent of the population relies on the urban bus network. They also have 250 kilometers of bike lines at their disposal, as well as the country's first major pedestrianized street, Rua das Flores. Curitiba's green belt provides natural protection against flooding. But its rapid population growth is putting its green ambitions under pressure. In 2016, San Francisco passed a law that all new buildings must set aside space for rooftop photovoltaic systems – the first major US city to do so. Plastic bags have been banned since 2007, and it introduced an urban food waste program in 2009. Now, it plans to go waste-free by 2020. Plus, the majority of its buses and light rails are zero-emission. Germany's financial center was one of the first cities to adopt a roadmap towards a 100 percent renewable energy supply by 2050. New buildings must follow strict guidelines on energy efficiency. Controversial materials like PVC are forbidden, and it has drastically reduced its waste, thanks to a modern waste management system. Frankfurt also has ambitious plans for e-mobility. Vancouver is trying to become the world's greenest city by 2020. By then, it seeks to reduce carbon emissions by 33 percent compared to 2007. The city's electricity comes almost entirely from hydroelectric dams, but it still needs to move away from natural gas and oil for heating and transportation. The goal is to reduce per-capita ecological footprint by 33 percent. Kigali has been described as Africa's cleanest city. It's planning to develop pedestrian and cycling corridors. Plastic bags are banned and citizens spend a day each month cleaning up the city, where it's rare to find litter. However, human rights groups have denounced the high price of this "cleanliness," which they say is as an excuse to impose a discriminatory control over the population. The European Green Capital 2016 gets all its electricity from hydropower. It has a strong focus on public transport, pedestrian and cycling networks, and has banned cars from its city center. It was the first European city to aim for zero waste, and already recycles over 60 percent – one of the highest rates in Europe. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz