Chemicals in cosmetics may harm women's health Chemicals that are widely used in cosmetics and personal care products can cause changes in women's reproductive hormones, a new study has found. The researchers at George Mason University in the US state of Virginia tested more than 500 urine samples from 143 women aged between 18 and 44. They analyzed these samples for chemicals found in beauty products, including benzophenones, which are ultraviolet filters; parabens, which are antimicrobial preservatives; as well as bisphenol A and chlorophenols. Read more: Why toxic chemicals keep sneaking into our food They found that these chemicals had an effect on female reproductive hormones. Phenol and UV filters decreased levels of estradiol, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), whereas parabens increased levels of estradiol. The researchers say that if these findings are confirmed by more studies the implications for estrogen-dependent diseases, such as breast cancer, could be severe. "What we should take away from this study is that we may need to be careful about the chemicals in the beauty and personal care products we use," says Dr. Anna Pollack, lead author of the study. Cleaning products might make children overweight Common household cleaning products may influence children's gut bacteria and cause obesity, say researchers in Canada. After analyzing the digestive bacteria of more than 700 infants, they discovered that babies aged three to four months showed altered gut bacteria when their homes were frequently cleaned with disinfectants, such as multi-surface cleaners. These children were also more likely to be overweight at the age of three than children whose homes had been cleaned with detergents or eco-friendly cleaners. Stomach bacteria are known to influence our health and have been shown to affect the development of diseases. Dangers lurking in tattoo ink Tattoos might have become exceedingly popular in Western countries, but the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology (EADV) has warned that the restrictions and requirements concerning the substances in tattoo ink do not guarantee health safety. According to the EADV, tattoo ink carries the risk of bacterial contamination, allergies and toxic effects. Currently, two in three people experience side-effects after being tattooed. Previous studies have also shown that some tattoo inks are contaminated with bacteria, such as staphylococci, streptococci and pseudomonas. Read more: Why tattoo ink is less cool than you think Additionally, tattoo inks are made up of dyes, pigments and additives, some even containing traces of heavy metals, which can cause toxic effects or allergies. People with a heart condition, diabetes or a weakened immune system have a higher risk for infection and should not be tattooed. People, who want to have a tattoo, should make sure to consult their doctor and go to a certified tattoo parlor. The European Commission has released its annual report on the 'Rapid Alert System' for dangerous products across 31 European countries. The system aims to provide a way for manufacturers, importers, retailers, experts, and national authorities to identify and report dangerous products as quickly as possible. Pictured is Věra Jourová, Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality. Many products for sale across the EU 28, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland are considered dangerous, from risk of injuries, to dangers of fire, chemical contamination or even choking. Toy-related products, such as the mask displayed here, consistently present the most risks. In the 2017 Rapid Alert System report, toys accounted for 29 percent of all product alerts — the most of any category. The main aim of the system is that when a product for sale is identified as potentially dangerous in one country, other EU states can quickly have access to this information and take appropriate steps to secure their own market. In 2017, there were 2,201 product alerts across the 31 European countries that are part of the system. The most alerts were raised by Germany, with 354. The Rapid Alert System deals with non-food products. Food and feed safety issues — one such example being the hotly-contested issue of the use of weed-killer glyphosate (pictured) — are dealt with within the EU by the RASFF (the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed). Both systems work in much the same way, using online portals and databases to exchange information about product alerts. Despite their seemingly innocent intentions, toys (29 percent) were the most notified category in 2017, followed by motor vehicles (20 percent) and clothing, textiles and fashion items (12 percent). Most dangerous products came from outside the EU, with China — which produces millions of toys (pictured) for the European market, among other things — the number one country of origin (53 percent). The European Commission cites as an example of good practice by the Rapid Alert System the case of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 mobile phone. After several media reports detailed the product's risk of causing burn injuries, a widespread exchange of information about the product took place across the network and the product was identified as posing a high risk of burns, leading to mass recalls. Germany signaled more dangerous products than other country in 2017, 16 percent of the total. Of the 354 alerts raised from Germany, 68 percent related to motor vehicles, a reflection of the importance of that industry. A simple example: a recent alert concerned springs in the starter motors of some Volkswagen cars, with the risk being that the starter motor could overheat and cause fires. 