The United States has decided to close the Palestine Liberation Organization's (PLO) mission in Washington, the organization announced on Monday. PLO secretary-general Saeb Erekat announced the decision in a statement, calling it a "dangerous escalation." "This is yet another affirmation of the Trump administration's policy to collectively punish the Palestinian people, including by cutting financial support for humanitarian services including health and education." The decision to shutter the PLO's de-facto embassy comes after the leaders in the Palestinian Authority (PA) cut off contact with the US government after President Donald Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel in December last year. Since then, the Trump administration has been trying to get Palestinian negotiators back to the table by cutting over $200 million (€173 million) in bilateral aid to the Palestinians. The US has also pulled its support for the UN agency for Palestinian refugee agency. The PLO is an umbrella group that was created in 1964 to represent various Palestinian factions seeking self-determination. The PLO also runs the PA, the semi-autonomous, interim government that manages certain areas of the Palestinian territories. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32oZ0 PLO pushing probe against Israel The move also comes amid US concerns over attempts by Palestinian officials to have Israel investigated for war crimes at the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague. Erekat said that Monday's decision to close the PLO's office in Washington shows the lengths that the Trump administration is willing to go to "in order to protect Israeli crimes" against Palestinians. He added that "the rights of the Palestinian people are not for sale." The US is also preparing on Monday to adopt an aggressive stance against the ICC should they proceed with an investigation into alleged war crimes committed by the US in Afghanistan as well as the possible probe against Israel. Trump's national security adviser, John Bolton, is due to announce the move later on Monday, including threatening sanctions against ICC judges. rs/kms (AFP, dpa, Reuters) According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, won Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. The Roman Empire ruled Jerusalem from the year 63 AD. Resistance movements rapidly formed among the population, so that in 66 AD, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and another destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately 600 years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 AD. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 AD onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II called for the First Crusade, which took Jerusalem in 1099 AD. Over a period of 200 years a total of nine crusades set out to conquer the city as it changed hands between Muslim and Christian rule. In 1244 AD the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again became Muslim. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535 AD. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917 AD, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele