Germany's interior minister, Horst Seehofer, stopped short of directly criticizing Germany's top domestic intelligence official on Sunday, but said he would demand evidence for controversial claims Hans-Georg Maassen made about unrest in Chemnitz last week. The murder of a 34-year-old man, allegedly by foreigners, in the eastern city of Chemnitz in August touched off a week of far-right and counterdemonstrations that injured dozens. One narrative that emerged from the upheaval was the story of how neo-Nazis had chased foreigners through the streets of Chemnitz after the murder, a story seemingly proven by video of the incident. But Maassen called the authenticity of the video into question, prompting widespread condemnation from the Social Democrats (SPD), the Left and Green parties, which said that it was irresponsible to make such a claim without giving a reason or evidence for his opinion. He was also accused, not for the first time, of protecting the far-right. Interior Minister Seehofer told public broadcaster ARD on Sunday that while he thought Maassen was carrying out his job properly, he also thought it would be prudent for the intelligence chief to offer some proof. "As a minister, one simply can't suppress any doubts," over a matter so important, Seehofer said, requesting Maassen present his office with documents. Accordingly, Maassen submitted a report to the Interior Ministry and the Chancellery on Monday, but their contents were not immediately made public. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34XTl 'We will pursue xenophobia unrelentingly' The interior minister also clarified that Maassen had come to his office with his opinion before going public, and Seehofer told him that it was his right "to go public at any time" with the information. Michael Kretschmer, state premier of Saxony, where Chemnitz lies, has also expressed doubts that neo-Nazis "hounded" foreigners in Chemnitz. For this, Seehofer reiterated that he "expects to see something that supports his reasoning." Seehofer also denied rumors that Maassen was purposely trying to make life difficult for Chancellor Angela Merkel and said that the spy chief enjoys his every confidence. As for right-wing extremism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism, Seehofer said "we will uncompromisingly and unrelentingly pursue all three things. " The demonstrations were sparked by a deadly brawl that broke out in the German city of Chemnitz in the early hours of Sunday (August 26). What started out as a war of words resulted in a 35-year-old man being stabbed to death. Hours later, spontaneous, anti-migrant protests took over the streets of Chemnitz. A German-Cuban man was stabbed in an altercation involving 10 people, several of whom were of "various nationalities," police sources said. The victim, named only as Daniel H., was apparently well-known among various political groups in the area. Two men in their 30s were also stabbed and seriously injured, and a 22-year-old Iraqi and 23-year-old Syrian are in custody over the killing. By Sunday afternoon, some 800 people had gathered to protest the man's death, including far-right groups. Authorities said the crowd was largely uncooperative and threw bottles at police officers. Police reinforcements had to be called in from nearby cities. The mobilizations were spontaneous and are thought to have surfaced following calls to demonstrate on social media. German authorities said that that far-right groups spread misinformation on the internet. Among the false claims was that the victim of the knife attack died protecting a woman. Thousands of far-right and counterdemonstrators faced off in a second day of protest Monday. Several people were injured as objects and fireworks were hurled. Video footage showed the far-right "Pro Chemnitz" movement holding a banner with a quote from early 20th century poet Anton Günther reading "German and free we aim to be." Counter-demonstrators denouncing right-wing extremism also took to the streets of Chemnitz. Among the protesters were Antifa, who clashed with right-wing demonstrators. Author: Louisa Wright