At least two oil staff members on Monday were killed when a ground of gunmen stormed the headquarters of Libya's National Oil Corporation (NOC) in the capital Tripoli, according to the health ministry. The armed group started shooting randomly in the building and set off several explosives. A fire caused by the explosives spread throughout the building. "The building was heavily damaged due to the fire. Smoke is everywhere," said Mustafa Sanallah, who heads NOC. "The gunmen attacked the lower floors with random shooting and explosions. It's a very violent attack." At least two of the gunmen were killed by Libyan security forces, according to security sources. While Libya has struggled under heavy fighting between rivals militias and armed factions, NOC and the Libyan Central Bank have largely escaped the violence. Read more: Can the EU and partners stabilize Libya? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2dV92 Fragile ceasefire At least 60 people have been killed and thousands displaced by fighting between rival militias and government forces since last month, marking a steep rise in violence in the capital city. But the UN last week said armed militias had agreed to a ceasefire with the internationally-recognized government in Tripoli. Since an uprising in 2011 evolved into a civil war and unseated former dictator Moammar Gadhafi, armed militias have fought for influence and control across the country. Read more: Libya: Building trust in democracy For more than 40 years, Moammar Gadhafi was the eccentric strongman in power in Libya. He was known for his odd behavior - and for his regime's ties to international terror groups. Libya was one of the countries swept up by the Arab Spring, and protests eventually turned into a civil war. Gadhafi fled but was eventually captured and killed In October, 2011. After Gadhafi fell, the eyes of the world were on Libya in the hope that the country would have a smooth transition to democracy. By July 2012, democratic parliamentary elections had taken place, but it proved to be a challenge for the country's politicians to form a coalition and compromise on issues that would bring further stability. Another problem facing Libya in the post-Gadhafi era was the rise of violent militias. While various armed groups did band together to topple the dictator, they did not have a common cause to rally around after his death. Instead, they fought each other. Terrorist groups were also on the rise in Libya, and staged a deadly attack on the US embassy in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. Political divisions became deeper in the years following Gadhafi's ouster. The UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) is the internationally-recognized authority in Libya, but several factions on the ground are claiming a hold on power. Jihadist groups including the so-called 'Islamic State' have gained a significant foothold in the country, making any progress precarious. At present, the Tripoli-based GNA controls parts of western and central Libya while Haftar's Libyan National Army holds much of the northeast. However, areas of power are constantly shifting due to ongoing "Islamic State" violence and the country's many different smaller factions. In recent weeks, Libya has reached out to NATO for assistance in strengthening the country's security institutions in an effort to end the power struggle between competing governments and militias. Leaders of two of the biggest groups - the GNA and the self-proclaimed Libyan National Army LNA - called for an end to the political and economic crises in the country. Author: Matt Zuvela ls/rc (Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.