Space travel took a step forward last week when SpaceX CEO Elon Musk announced that his US aerospace company had signed the world's first private passenger for its planned "Big Falcon Rocket (BFR) Lunar Mission." The identity of the mystery moon orbiter will be announced by Elon Musk in a news conference later on Monday. Speculation was building on social media about the individual's identity, with some space fans suggesting it was Musk himself. Read more: NASA names astronauts for first commercial space flights Japanese space tourist? The SpaceX CEO's reply showing a Japanese flag fueled rumors that it could be one of several Japanese businessmen. Space fan Daisuke 'Dice-K' Enomoto is high on the list of potential passengers. The space enthusiast previously paid for a flight to the International Space Station (ISS) but was grounded for medical reasons. Space fans also predicted SoftBank CEO and Japanese magnate Masayoshi Son could be the lucky individual. Read more: Opinion: Elon Musk and feeling like a kid again "Only 24 humans have been to the moon in history," SpaceX said on Twitter, adding that no one has visited the moon since the last Apollo mission in 1972. Whoever the passenger is, SpaceX is hyping the moon orbiting mission as an epic trip. The passenger's identity will be revealed at a news conference planned for 0030 UTC (0230 CEST). Tech visionary Musk intends to revolutionize transportation, both on earth and in space, and the way humans lead their lives. Over the past two decades, the South African-born American entrepreneur has emerged as one of Silicon Valley's most recognized faces worldwide. Musk was cofounder of Paypal, which was acquired by eBay for $1.4 billion (€1.2 billion) in 2002. In 2002, Musk founded SpaceX, an aerospace manufacturer and space transport services company currently valued at over $20 billion. He wants to make space travel cheaper and, eventually, enable human life on Mars, thus giving human kind a chance at becoming multi-planetary species. SpaceX's Falcon and Dragon rocket programs both already deliver payloads into Earth's orbit. The company has said it wants to launch its Mars-bound cargo flight in 2022, followed by the first Mars flight with passengers in 2024. After founding SpaceX, Musk set up Tesla in 2003 to come up with electric autonomous vehicles and renewable energy solutions. But production bottlenecks have plagued the company, with much of its future banked on the Model 3, its first mid-price, mass-market vehicle. After the foray into electric cars, Musk last year opened a new chapter in his book of visions as he unveiled the prototype of a futuristic all-electric heavy truck. The vehicle — dubbed the Tesla Semi — is set to go into production in 2019. It would boast 500 miles of range, a battery and motors that will last 1 million miles and cheaper total operating costs than diesel models, Musk claimed. Besides running SpaceX and Tesla, Musk has also invested in the solar energy company SolarCity to turn his vision of a solar-powered future into a reality. Musk said houses equipped with Tesla's Solar Roof would feed energy to Powerwall, a sleek storage unit designed to act as an electricity fill-up station for both the house and a Tesla electric car. In 2015, Musk unveiled Powerwall, a home battery unit with a selling price of $3,500 for 10kWh and $3,000 for 7kWh. The Powerwall can be controlled via one's phone, from anywhere. But slow production rates have proved to be a problem. Hyperloop came into global prominence after it was proposed by Musk in 2013. It is viewed as a next-generation transportation system — a "fifth mode" of transport (after planes, trains, cars and boats). It uses magnetically-levitated pods and sealed partial vacuum transit tubes to move people and freight at supersonic speeds estimated to reach over 700 miles per hour (1,127 kilometers per hour). In 2016, Musk co-founded Neuralink, a neurotechnology startup that is reportedly trying to create brain-computer interfaces by integrating the human brain with artificial intelligence (AI). The project is currently at an early stage of development. Author: Srinivas Mazumdaru kw/ng (dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.