The 40-page report published this Friday on the home page of UEFA, European football's governing body, found no major reservations about Germany's bid to host what would be its fourth major international football tournament. It noted that all of the stadiums that the German bid foresees using in 2024 already existed, although some upgrades would be required before the tournament kicks off. Germany also got points for its transportation infrastructure and human rights record. "The DFB (German Football Association) bid is of high quality and comfortably meets overall expectations when it comes to political aspects, social responsibility, sustainability and human rights," the report stated. Concerns about Turkish bid The Turkish bid didn't come off as well in the report, which highlighted concerns in the areas of infrastructure, finance and human rights. Of Turkey's bid, the evaluation found that: "The lack of an action plan in the area of human rights is a matter of concern." It also expressed concern that "recent economic developments in the country may put planned public investments under pressure." It also said that "limited hotel capacity in many cities is a matter of concern" and that overall "the scale of works to be undertaken ... constitutes a risk." Unlike the German bid, the Turkish Football Association (TFF) is planning to rebuild two of the existing stadiums that it foresees using in 2024, while renovating a third. On the positive side for the Turkish bid, it noted that it had the full backing of the population and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, while there was "widespread support" in Germany for the DFB's bid. "The report shows that we have taken our work of the past several months seriously and UEFA has taken note of our strengths," said the ambassador for the German bid, former national team captain Phillipp Lahm. If Germany gets the nod, he stands to become the head of the organizing committee for 2024. Germany has previously hosted the 1988 European championship, as well as the 1974 and 2006 World Cups. The UEFA Executive Committee is to vote on September 27 to decide which country will host Euro 2024. pfd/hf (dpa, SID) Berlin's Olympic Stadium is something of a German Wembley. Originally constructed for the 1936 Olympic Games, it has been the home of current Bundesliga side Hertha Berlin since 1963. The stadium has hosted the final of the German Cup, the DFB Pokal, since 1985 and was also the venue for 2006 World Cup final and 2015 Champions League final. It may look like a UFO has landed next to the motorway in Munich but it is in fact the Allianz Arena, home of German giants Bayern Munich since 2005. Its outer scales light up red when Bayern are at home and white when the German national team plays here. Built for the 2006 World Cup, it also hosted the 2012 Champions League final when Bayern were beaten "at home" by Chelsea. Borussia Dortmund's Signal Iduna Park, still known by many fans as the Westfalenstadion, is the biggest football stadium in Germany with a total capacity of 81,360 - although this is reduced to "only" 65,851 when the terracing is replaced by seats for European and national team games. During the 2006 World Cup, Germany were beaten in the semifinal here by the eventual winners, Italy. Leipzig, the city where the German Football Association was founded in 1900 and home to the first ever German champions, VfB Leipzig, in 1903, is also represented. The new arena was built ahead of the 2006 World Cup inside the bowl of the historic Zentralstadion. In 2010, it was renamed the Red Bull Arena and became the home of the newly-created RB Leipzig. Built on the foundations of the old Müngersdorfer Stadion, Cologne's new stadium was built for the 2006 World Cup. The four corner pillars light up the night sky. FC Köln's home ground is red, with steep seats and generally a full house. It can hold 46,195 fans. In Cologne's greenbelt, the stadium's not far from the DFB's coaching academy. Schalke's home stadium sits atop a hill in the north of Gelsenkirchen. Now named after a beer producer, it can accommodate 54,740 spectators. Its retractable roof can come into play during bad weather. The arena was a World Cup venue in 2006. It is also used to host other events like concerts, and has hosted the World Team Challenge for the skiing and shooting biathlon for years now. This ground, like so many in Germany, has carried a string of sponsors' names in recent years. But now it's back to its original title, that roughly translates as the People's Park Stadium. The new stadium can hold 51,500 tanks to clever remodeling of the original Volksparkstadion, turning its running track into more seating. It's no surprise that the 48,000-capacity stadium in Frankfurt made the cut. Germany's financial capital on the Main river already attracts more than its fair share of foreign visitors, and is also the DFB's hometown. Germany's football association is in the process of building a new headquarters near the stadium. Düsseldorf was perhaps the biggest loser in 2006 when the World Cup slots were doled out. Despite a newly-renovated stadium, the city went empty-handed while local rivals Cologne got the nod. The 51,000-capacity ground is a cauldron inside, although it resembles a giant DIY store from without. It's also a good stadium to hide the odd empty seat, the paint job means the stands always appear full. If you didn't know who helps keep VfB Stuttgart afloat, the ground's name should provide a big enough clue. The state capital of Baden Württemberg is also Germany's automotive hub, home to Mercedes and to Porsche. This was another World Cup 2006 stadium. Indeed, the German "summer fairy tale" concluded when Jürgen Klinsmann and assistant Joachim Löw's team beat Portugal in the third-place playoff. Author: Chuck Penfold, Mark Hallam