The UNHCR has named South Sudanese surgeon Dr. Evan Atar Adaha as the recipient of this year's 2018 Nansen Refugee Award for his dedicated service at a hospital in the conflict-ridden country. Every year the prize is awarded to an individual or organization who demonstrates extraordinary service to people who have been forcibly displaced. The award is named after Fridtjof Nansen, who was the first high commissioner for prisoners of war and refugees for the League of Nations. The 2018 award ceremony will be held on the 1st of October in Geneva, Switzerland. Adaha is a surgeon and medical director at a hospital in Bunj, a city in the county of Maban in the northeast of South Sudan. According to the UNHCR, the hospital provides medical services to more than 200,000 people, relying on limited supplies and equipment. .Adaha is said to work 48-hour shifts and his team performs almost 60 operations every week. He has been working in Sudan — and later in South Sudan — for over 20 years. During this time he also built two hospitals and trained young people to become nurses and midwives. South Sudan gained it's independence from Sudan in 2011, with a bloody civil war breaking out two years later. Since then, approximately 1.9 million people have been displaced within the young country, and tens of thousands have died due to the conflict. On the 12th of September 2018, a new peace deal was signed between South Sudanese leaders, following the disintegration of an earlier peace agreement from 2015. DW spoke to Adaha about his determination to help the people in South Sudan and the current situation in the war-torn country. DW: How dire is the situation for people in Maban? Evan Atar Adaha: Mabam is a surreal place. We have about 200,000 refugees who came here. When the war broke out in South Sudan, it became really difficult for people to get services like health services. The situation has been so difficult. We have seen the number [of patients] go up and the resources that are supposed to be there are not really coping with the numbers which are continuing to increase. We are obviously talking about a very serious situation where people have been uprooted from their homes. Do you think the world has neglected these people? Yeah, that is the sense. What is really important is that maybe people are not really seeing the real dire situation in Maban. If they knew exactly what was happening, the suffering of the people, they could have helped. It could also be because [other conflicts] are happening everywhere. Do you think it was a good idea for you to stay in a city ravaged by civil war? Yes, because that was the time they needed me the most. Not when things are easy. Do you think it reflects poorly on humanity that the rest of the world had to wait for such a prestigious award to be given to you before they started paying more attention to the civil war in South Sudan? I don’t think I should put the blame on anybody. But what is really important is that we have to help, whenever we come across [these situations]. Really, it's necessary for us to deal with them. We can help. Dr Evan Atar Adaha sits with a South Sudanese refugee and her son at Maban hospital What inspires you in your work? What inspires me? I feel better when I help others, at least with what we have. [The fact that ] with whatever I have I can help one person, three people...That's a great feeling for me. Do you think the government in Juba understands the situation of these people and are trying to do something to help? As a medical doctor I think it’s necessary for not only me, but the government or any other person to help in this kind of situation, because we all know how bad the war is. So it is really necessary. I think it is important to solve these problems and offer a complete solution to the whole situation — not just in Maban, but also elsewhere in South Sudan and other parts of the world. You say that the situation there is very bad. What kind of cases do you treat in a normal day? On normal days of course we have a large number of people to take care of. We have to take care of the mothers, for example, who are experiencing obstructed labor. We also have to treat the children who have acute malnutrition. These are the things which are still the most common. Then we come back to treat the gunshot wounds of [soldiers] in the waring parts of the country, or even of civilians who are also using guns. Evan Atar Adaha is a surgeon and medical director at Maban hospital in north-eastern South Sudan and the 2018 winner of the Nansen Refugee Award. The interview was conducted by Abu-Bakarr Jalloh. It has been edited and condensed for clarity. More than 30,000 people live in the Protection of Civilians (PoC) site in Juba, capital of South Sudan. Around 7,000 are children who have lost contact with their parents. The NGO Nonviolent Peaceforce is trying to reunite them. The first step is to establish a child's identity and then to collect as much information as possible which could assist in locating the parents. This data is placed online and can be accessed by all international organizations working in child protection in South Sudan. If the search for the family proves fruitless, or if the child has been orphaned, foster parents are found. In South Sudan, Nonviolent Peaceforce focuses on the protection of women and children, who rarely participate in armed conflict, but are disproportionately affected by it. To this end, Nonviolent Peaceforce is forming all-female Women's Peacekeeping Teams, specially trained in tackling sexual and gender-based violence. As well as training, the Women's Peacekeeping Teams are also given follow-up support as they seek to prevent sexual and gender-based violence. The teams liaise with women in the communities, helping them to identify risks and counter them. The teams are also in contact with authorities so that culprits can be held accountable for their actions. The civil war began as a political dispute, but it has reopened ethnic fault lines between the Dinka people of President Salva Kiir and the Nuer of rebel leader Riek Machar . Ulang in Upper Nile State is dominated by the Nuer. It was attacked by government in troops in May 2015 and dozens were killed. The once tranquil region found itself caught up in conflict. Nonviolent Peaceforce runs a child protection project in Ulang, one of six in South Sudan. These projects vary in accordance with local needs. In Ulang, community volunteers ensure that the children have access to recreation and sports. At Ulang's Kopuot Primary School, children are playing a game of soccer as part of a child protection project. The building in the background is pockmarked with bullet holes, an ever-present reminder that the school was a target for government troops during their May offensive. All teaching materials and other supplies at the school were destroyed in the government offensive. But now, in makeshift classrooms, the struggle to acquire an education goes on. Author: Fellipe Abtreu Author: