There are questions in life that sound completely silly, but they keep scientists busy all the same. For example: Is human cannibalism a good alternative to eating deer, cattle and other animals? In other words, is the effort of cannibalism worth it from a purely nutritional point of view? And while we're at it: Which parts of the human body provide the highest number of calories? James Cole, an archaeologist at the University of Brighton, UK, has taken  a closer look at all of these pressing questions. His study shows that humans are not particularly good sources of meat. "The perhaps unsurprising thing is that when you compare us to a horse or a cow, we're actually quite small," Cole tells DW, quite seriously in fact. A person weighs an average of only 65.9 kilograms (145.3 lbs), of which just 24.9 kilograms (54.9 lbs) are muscles. The nutritional value of human meat is about 1300 calories per kilogram, quite low compared to that of bisons and other cattle, or boars. "A single horse can give you much more calories than six human individuals," says Cole. "Besides, humans can fight back and are quite dangerous prey." One other thing is pretty clear: Our aptitude for revenge. People will take it quite personally if you eat their friends and family. So that would be another downside to cannibalism — angry people out for revenge. All of that is a good against cannibalism. It could be why humans consuming other humans has not prevailed in the course of our evolution. If you do have to choose a body part, though, you should go for the thighs. According to Cole's calculations, they make up more than a tenth of the entire caloric value of a human being. Hannibal Lecter and Co. James Cole presented his findings at the 2018 Ig Nobel Prize Lecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge, USA. His presentation met with loud laughter. Cole is just one of ten teams of scientists who were awarded a parody Nobel Prize for their bizarre achievements. The Ig Nobel Prize for research  "that first make people laugh, then make them think." But cannibalism is not all laughs. Cole's presentation wouldn't have been complete without a reference to one of the most famous cannibals in movie history — Hannibal Lecter from the film "The Silence of the Lambs." Cannibalism is quite common in the animal kingdom, but as Cole points out, the phenomenon also happens every now and then within the human species, whether for pure survival, in warfare or by crazy people, like Hannibal Lecter. James Cole explores the lifestyle of extinct human species - and therefore cannot avoid cannibalism At the end of the lecture, someone from the audience asked whether Cole had any tips for today's modern cannibals. He didn't. A serious background The findings are not nearly as funny for Cole as they are for Ig Nobel Prize audience. He has a very serious research goal: He investigates the lifestyle of Neanderthals and other extinct human species. They ate other humans — proven by fossil bones with bite marks on them. With the help of his study, the British archaeologist wants to demonstrate that Neanderthals were more than mere eating machines that pounced at other humans. If they did eat them, it may not have been for the meat itself, but for something deeper. Their reason for consuming people may have been more profound, even spiritual. Cole suggests Neanderthals may have wanted to help their fellows live on in themselves, albeit through the detour of cannibalism. "Neanderthals were culturally and socially complex creatures, just as we are," says Cole. "Against that background it would seem very strange to me if they also didn't have a very complex attitude to cannibalism in the way that we do." One question remains: What does human meat actually taste like? "The texture of human meat has been compared to that of pork," says Cole. "But, well, me and my colleagues have wondered if in the past it was maybe a bit more like the meat of deer because we had much more active lives." And that might be yet another reason to avoid cannibalism today — at least, if you're a gourmet.  The Ig-Nobel-Prize is a pun on the word ignoble. In the past, entries tackled questions such as: When bitten by insects - where on the human body are the bites most painful? Or: Is it really possible that Sultan Mulai Ismail fathered 888 children between 1697 and 1727? One Australian scientist was even awarded the prize for "unboiling" an egg. One essential question for humankind and our four-legged friends: How long does it take to urinate? A team led by U.S. researcher Patricia Yang found the answer: 21 seconds plus or minus 13 seconds. In previous years the prize was awarded to related research… Dogs align themselves with the earth's magnetic field when doing number twos. Czech researchers observed 70 canines from 37 breeds. The answer: The preferred direction is along the north-south axis. That got them the Ig Nobel Prize for Biology in 2014. In 2011, the Ig Nobel Prize in Psychology went to researchers of cognitive biology from Vienna University. They wanted to find out if yawning is contagious among red-legged tortoises. While humans often find yawning to be contagious, the research group found that that's not the case among tortoises. The study was published in "Current Zoology." The winners of the Physics award in 2014 came from the Kitasato University in Japan. They looked into the friction-coefficient of banana peel on linoleum floor. The result: polysaccharide follicular gel in the banana peel does indeed perform a lubricating function. In regular English, that banana peels are really slippery - ouch! In 2014, the prize in the Public Health category went to researchers looking into the correlation between cat bites and depression. The scientists had analyzed patient data and concluded that among women who had been treated for cat bites, there was a significant increase in cases of depression. The recommendation: next time your cat bites you, better see a shrink! The 2013 prize for Security Engineering went to the inventor of a fully automated hijacker disposal device. The culprit falls into a trap, gets bundled up as a handy package by a wrapping machine and then dropped out of the plane on a parachute. This would save the police SWAT-team a lot of work in cases like the hijacking of the German plane "Landshut" in Mogadishu in 1977. People who believe they've seen Jesus on a slice of bread or on a tortilla - such news hit the media time and again. Neurologists from China and Canada found out what happens inside the brain when we are recognizing faces in places where there usually are none. What they found was a whole network of brain-sections responsible for face-recognition. This got them the 2014 prize for Neurology. In 2013 there was a joint prize for biology and astronomy: An international team found out that dung beetles looked to the shining light of the Milky Way for orientation when the moon was absent. When the sky was clear, the beetles were able to walk a straight line. As soon as the sky was overcast they lost all sense of direction. The 2010 Engineering award went to the American inventors of a special drone for whale-watching. But the drone that was used to fly closely over the whales' heads also had another task: whale smelling. The breath coming out of the animals' nostrils includes bacteria, the amount of which marine biologists are measuring. Beautiful pictures like this one were a by-product of the research. Author: Fabian Schmidt/ cb 