The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) executive committee voted on Thursday to reinstate Russia's anti-doping agency, RUSADA. "This decision provides a clear timeline by which WADA must be given access to the former Moscow laboratory data and samples with a clear commitment by the [executive committee] that should this timeline not be met, it would support the [compliance review committee's] recommendation to reinstate non-compliance," the organization said in a tweet. In 2015, WADA suspended RUSADA for non-compliance with global anti-doping rules. WADA that year also withdrew the Moscow anti-doping laboratory's accreditation. Read more: Opinion: The world of sports is looking away 'Slap in face' of clean athletes WADA Vice President Linda Helleland lambasted the decision, saying it "casts a dark shadow over the credibility of the anti-doping movement." The head of the US anti-doping agency, Travis Tygart, called the decision a "devastating blow to the world's clean athletes." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2oyxq What prompted Russia's suspension? RUSADA was suspended following a WADA probe into allegations of widespread doping in Russian athletics. The investigation was prompted in part by a German TV documentary by public broadcaster ARD that exposed systematic doping in the country. The most damning findings, by far, pertained to the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics, where Russian officials are alleged to have systematically swapped clean samples for dirty ones. Russia has rejected one key claim of the so-called McLaren Report, namely that the system was "state-sponsored." Read more: How clean is Russian football? New roadmap One of the first proposals for the reinstatement of RUSADA required Russian authorities to accept the McLaren report, which had suggested possible Kremlin involvement in the doping scheme. But that was softened under the new roadmap. Instead, WADA was satisfied with a letter from Russian Sports Minister Pavel Kolobkov that said Russia "fully accepted the decision" to be suspended "based on the findings of the Schmidt Report." That report was made by former Swiss President Samuel Schmidt and did not emphasize state involvement in the doping scheme, placing the blame squarely on RUSADA. Read more: Opinion: A dark day for the battle against doping What happens next? RUSADA must provide WADA with access to its laboratory data and samples. Non-compliance will result in another suspension, according to the world anti-doping body. In the first known doping incident, coaches pumped a dangerous mix of strychnine and pure egg whites into Thomas Hicks before his marathon at the 1904 St. Louis Olympics. In the absence of guidelines at the time, he was declared the winner of the race - even after collapsing at the finishing line and hallucinating for hours. The boost may nearly have cost Hicks his life. Argentine soccer ace Diego Maradona has battled with substance abuse on two separate fronts: During the 1980s, he developed a serious cocaine habit that would follow him throughout his life and lead to some serious health scares, but he also tested positively for ephedrine in 1994, provoking a FIFA ban and the end of his prolific career as a midfielder. Born as Heidi, Krieger was a female shot putter for East Germany at the height of the Cold War. Communist officials fed Krieger with staggering amounts of steroids, altering her appearance. Krieger began to publicly identify as transgender and later opted to have gender reassignment surgery, becoming Andreas. A successful Canadian sprinter with a stellar track record, Johnson's doping scandal overshadowed much of the 1988 Seoul Olympics. When blood samples tested positive for stanozolol, he was disqualified three days after winning the gold medal in the 100-meter sprint. Though Johnson admitted to doping, he maintained that he had never taken stanolozol - implying that he might have been set up. Marion Jones was sentenced to six months in prison in 2008 after lying to US federal investigators about her part in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO) doping scandal. Jones, the most prominent athlete linked to the scandal, had denied all allegations against her but later tested positive for tetrahydrogestrinone supplied by BALCO, leading to the end of her career. Alex Rodriguez is one of the most successful baseball players of all time, producing numbers rarely seen since the days of fellow Yankees Joe DiMaggio in the 1940s and Babe Ruth in the '20s. Rodriguez was suspended for the 2014 season after admitting to steroid abuse. He has made a comeback and hopes to redeem himself by completing 700 home runs before he retires from the sport. He has 678. Ullrich was German cycling's poster child. He won the 1997 Tour de France and two medals at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and continued to compete internationally for several years before doping allegations first arose in 2006. He managed to dodge these until 2012, when a Court of Arbitration for Sport ruling found that he had used steroids for many years. A number of investigations between 2010 and 2012 led to Lance Armstrong's monumental downfall in January 2013. Although allegations had been levelled at him repeatedly, Armstrong managed to hide his steroid abuse for years. Having conquered testicular cancer, Armstrong was once a national hero who even hinted at a future career in politics in his native Texas. That's now history. Author: Sertan Sanderson ls/msh (Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.