German Chancellor Angela Merkel and her Austrian counterpart Sebastian Kurz appeared to put aside their differences on Sunday, as the two leaders announced a series of efforts aimed at combating irregular migration to Europe. The pair agreed to collaborate with several African nations to stem migration flows and welcomed plans by European Commission President Jean-Clause Juncker to bolster Frontex staff to 10,000 by 2020. Although Merkel and Kurz have previously clashed on migration, Austria's anti-immigration chancellor acknowledged that Berlin had adopted a harder line, thanks in large part to German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer. Ahead of Sunday's meeting, a spokesman for Austrian chancellery said strengthening the EU's external borders would be a focal point in the discussions in Berlin. "There can be no open borders within Europe without proper protection of external EU borders," Kurz said in remarks provided to the DPA news agency by his spokesman. "That's why it is so important to strengthen Frontex." Following the last formal EU leaders' summit in June, the Commission vowed to boost the bloc's border management agency Frontex, and establish migrant processing centers on the European periphery and in North Africa. Those proposals have yet to be translated into policy. Kurz said he and Merkel agreed that "we have to work out the details of the turning point that we achieved" in June. Read more: What is the Frontex – the European Border and Coast Guard Agency? In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticized by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart Africa onboard? Kurz also announced plans to co-host a joint EU-Africa summit in Vienna with Rwandan President Paul Kagame in December. Austria, which currently holds the rotating European Council presidency, said the summit would focus on improving economic ties between the two continents in a bid to tackle one of the drivers of migration to Europe. Merkel also stressed the need to engage with the African countries of origin. Areas for collaboration between the EU and the 53 African countries must be clearly defined, the German chancellor said, since "nobody can be expected to have to deal with everything." Read more: At Spain's enclave of Ceuta, African refugees dream of Europe More talks ahead Merkel is expected to visit Algeria on Monday. The Austrian chancellor is also set to hold talks with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Monday, ahead of next week's EU leaders' summit in Salzburg. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32NOv Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/ls (dpa, AFP, AP)