A massive evacuation was underway in northern Philippines on Friday as Typhoon Mangkhut barrelled toward the area. About 5 million people are at risk from the storm, according to the Hawaii-based Joint Typhoon Warning Center. The center said that the typhoon's winds are equivalent to a category 5 Atlantic hurricane. It has a huge raincloud about 900 kilometers (560 miles) wide, and is expected to make landfall Saturday, tearing across the country's northern breadbasket. 'You can't even crawl' Government forecaster Rene Paciente issued a warning about the force of the winds: "It can lift cars, you can't stand, you can't even crawl against that wind." Paciente also cautioned residents that even if the typhoon weakens after making landfall, it will remain incredibly destructive. Read more: Climate change - 'Asia is paying for the West's emissions' The typhoon has already hit the US army base on the pacific island of Guam. Footage from the ravaging storm shows roofs being torn off shacks on the island. As Mangkhut bears down on the Philippines, authorities have warned that the winds are equivalent to a category 5 Atlantic hurricane. One official said: 'you can't walk, you can't even crawl," when warning residents not to venture outside. Many residents have begun preparing for the storm by reinforcing their homes and buying food and supplies in bulk. Here in a slum outside the capital Manila, people have put heavy tires on their homes to hold them down. The central and local governments have emergency services at the ready hours before Mangkhut is set to make landfall. The storm's massive raincloud band is 900 kilometers (560 miles) wide. People take shelter in Cagayan, where the storm was projected to make its initial landfall. Thousands of shelters have been set up not only in the Philippines but also in China, where the storm is expected to hit later in the weekend. Canals were already flooding in Manila on Friday. The region has a history of violent and deadly typhoons, such as Typhoon Haiyan in 2013, which killed about 7,000 people. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Those who live in the typhoon's projected path and cannot flee have been reinforcing their homes and stocking up on food. Southeastern China has also been taking precautions, as the typhoon is expected to reach its mainland by Monday morning. More than 3,000 shelters have been set up in the southern Guangdong province, and more than 100,000 residents and tourists have either been moved to safety or sent home. The area has seen its share of catastrophic typhoons in recent years, the most severe of which was Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. More than 7,300 people in the Philippines were killed, entire villages were destroyed, and more than 5 million people were displaced. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1BAAw es/rt (AP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.