Britain's biggest retailer Tesco inaugurated its first Jack's store in Chatteris — a small town 80 miles (128 kilometers) north of London — on Wednesday. A second Jack's store was opened in Immingham, to be followed by another 13 over the next six months. Tesco said it was investing between 20 million pounds and 30 million pounds ($26 million to $39 million or €22.3 million to €33.8 million) in the first openings, with the stores offering 2,600 products, including 1,800 Jack's-branded items. The discount brand is named after Jack Cohen, who founded Tesco in 1919, and the launch will coincide with the company's centenary celebrations. Tesco chief executive Dave Lewis said Jack's would sell "great-tasting food at the lowest possible prices," with eight out of ten products made in Britain. "The intention is for us to be cheapest in town," he said at the Chatteris store, which was built as a Tesco supermarket, but was mothballed in 2015 when the group was in crisis. Retail shake-up With its new discount food chain Tesco is fighting back against German discounters Lidl and Aldi, who "continue to shape the direction" in the UK retail business, according to data group Euromonitor International. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30hC4 Together Aldi and Lidl now have a combined 13.1 percent market share in Britain, chipping away at market leader Tesco and its three biggest rivals, Sainsbury's, Asda and Morrisons. "Consumer demand for low prices, driven by food price inflation in the wake of the Brexit referendum, as well as real wage stagnation, are part of the reason for this," the group said in a recent report. Read more: Oxfam slams German supermarkets over 'unfair practices' Tesco copies the tactics of the German discounters, whose limited-range stores have won over increasing numbers of British shoppers. At the same time, Jack's stores attempt to woo budget-conscious shoppers with a patriotic pitch. UK flags emblazoned on Jack's products including milk, cereals and potato chips advertise their Britishness, reflecting a push by grocers to emphasize local roots. Moreover, Jack's offers familiar grocery brands and a range of general merchandise on a "When it's Gone, It's Gone" basis. Sainsbury's and Walmart-owned Asda, meanwhile, are trying to improve their fortunes with a planned merger. But the mega deal faces uncertainty after Britain's competition watchdog said on Wednesday it was launching an in-depth probe into the proposed tie-up. The first on the list are Stefan Quandt and his sister Susanne Klatten (with their mother Johanna Quandt in this picture) - the largest shareholders of car giant BMW. Plummeting stocks after the scandal at competitor VW have apparently not affected this family, which is Germany's richest for the second year in a row. The company has a turnover of 26.5 billion euros so far this year. Georg Schaeffler and his mother Maria-Elisabeth were almost ruined when their ball bearings manufacturing company INA Schaeffler acquired Continental tires shortly before the financial crisis of 2008. The second-richest family in Germany however managed to stage a memorable comeback and their turnover is expected to touch 22 billion euros by the end of 2015. Supermarket discounter Aldi Süd is expected to have a turnover of nearly 20 billion euros by the end of this year. Germany's third richest company, run by the families Albrecht and Heister who separated from Aldi Nord decades ago, has depended on a strategy of supplying products at low prices to their consumers. The Reimann family, with stakes in Reckitt-Benckiser, Coty and JAB Holdings, has already earned 17.6 billion euros this year. The Reimanns are known for their range of products for false teeth, sold under the brandname "Kukident." The company, founded in the early 20th century, is aggressively expanding, taking over brands previously owned by consumer goods giant Procter and Gamble, for example. Champagne and exotic food at discounter prices: The Lidl supermarket chain is trying to win over a new clientele and giving Aldi stiff competition in the process. Dieter Schwarz's discounter has had a turnover of 17 billion euros so far this year. Germany's popular discounter Aldi is divided into its northern and southern counterparts. Aldi Nord (logo on the right), managed by the Theo Albrecht family, has had a turnover of more than 16 billion euros this year, but experts say the family's management style focuses more on administration than innovation - an issue in these competitive times. A turnover of 9.5 billion euros in 2015 makes brakes manufacturer Knorr-Bremse's owner Heinz-Hermann Thiele the seventh richest man in Germany. Thiele is known for his aggressive expansion strategies in business. Germany's legendary goods delivery company, Otto Versand, made a mark decades before Amazon was even conceived. The company's founder, Werner Otto, was considered a pioneer of entrepreneurship in post-war Germany. The company has however suffered after heavy competition from online companies. Its turnover stands at around nine billion euros. 80-year-old Reinhold Würth made a turnover of 10 billion euros this year by selling screws all over the world. But the tools and hardware magnate is also a renowned fine arts collector who owns more than 16,000 rare paintings by masters including Emil Nolde and Max Ernst. 75-year-old Günter Herz helped transform his father's relatively modest business Tchibo into what became an $8-billion trading and coffee company in 2015. Herz's varied investments included tobacco, sports and even Italian food chain Vapiano. Author: Manasi Gopalakrishnan Fresh attempt Jack's is not the first attempt by Britain's mainstream grocers to crack the discounter market. Sainsbury's joined up with Denmark's Dansk Supermarked in 2014 to bring the Netto discount brand back to Britain, but closed its 16 stores two years later, blaming the difficulty and cost of growing at pace and scale. Tesco attempted to go down the discount route in the 1980s, with its Victor Value brand, but later ditched the concept. Asda has also experimented. Andy Brian, head of retail and partner in law firm Gordons, believes though that it won't be easy to "crack the discount market" even for a brand as big as Tesco. "Tesco will have to find a way to attract customers from the likes of Aldi, Lidl and Iceland, rather than convert existing Tesco customers into discount shoppers through brand association," he told the news agency Reuters. With the new chain, Tesco has to walk a fine line, challenging the discounters while avoiding the cannibalization of its main store brand with lower prices. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2sLb2 uhe/jbh (Reuters, AFP)