Turkish finance minister Berat Albayrak unveiled a "new economic program" on Thursday, saying the government was aiming to "write a new success story" for the struggling country. The plan, to be implemented over the next three years, would be based on "balancing, discipline, and change," Albayrak said during a presentation in Istanbul, and included cutting public spending by $10 billion (€8.5 billion) to bring down the budget deficit as well as rein in runaway inflation. Read more: Turkey puts projects on hold in battle against inflation Albayrak, who was placed in charge of the economy by his father-in-law, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, admitted though that the program would lower economic growth substantially, which was now expected to be 3.8 percent in 2018 and 2.3 percent in 2019 — both revised down from previous forecasts of 5.5 percent. "We will see a gradual growth increase from now on. Our main goal is to establish 5 percent growth from 2021 onwards," Albayrak said, adding that measures would be implemented to overcome economic hardships. Turkey is in the throes of a full-blown currency crisis, with the Turkish lira losing nearly 45 percent of its value since the start of the year. The currency crisis threatens to plunge the world's 18th-largest economy into a financial crisis and trigger contagion in emerging markets and Europe. Turkey has traditionally suffered from a large current account deficit. This difference between import and export of goods and services has been filled through external borrowing in foreign currency. A decade of easy money and low interest rates in the United States and EU following the 2008 financial crisis led to investors searching for higher yields to emerging markets like Turkey. The external funds entered the Turkish economy to finance deficits, massive government spending and company borrowing. Credit-fueled growth helped the Turkish economy grow and boosted the government’s popularity through increased consumption and major construction projects. Here, road paint reads: "Slow down." Investors have pulled back money from emerging markets in recent months as the US Federal Reserve has steadily raised interest rates and is cutting back on easy money policies in response to a robust American economy. This has caused the dollar to increase, the lira to fall, and Turkish bond yields to rise. The pressure on Turkey is reflective of broader trends in emerging markets, although the lira is by far the worst performer. That's because investors have lost confidence in management of the economy under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who believes in unorthodox economic policy, demands low interest rates and constantly assails "the interest rate lobby." Inflation is at 16 percent a year. On August 10, US President Donald Trump announced higher tariffs on Turkish imports of steel and aluminum. The tariffs themselves are minor and impact around $1 billion (€875 million) in trade, but they weighed on market confidence in the vulnerable Turkish economy. Even more, Trump’s direct reference to the Turkish lira sent the currency tumbling. The imprisonment of US pastor Andrew Brunson has weighed heavily on relations, leading to a series of escalations. Ties between the two NATO allies have also nosedived over US support for Syrian Kurdish forces, Ankara's plans to buy a Russian missile system and Turkey's demand that Washington extradite US-based Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Erdogan blames for the failed July 2016 coup bid. Poor relations between Washington and Ankara have added to Turkey's economic woes, but given broader fundamentals it is only a proximate cause of the market mayhem. More than 30 percent of the lira’s loss has come since June, when Erdogan took over the office with new sweeping powers. Erdogan's authoritarian hand has distanced the country from traditional Western allies and hit confidence. After winning a June election, Erdogan spooked markets when he tightened his control over the central bank. Instead of appointing technocrats, Erdogan appointed his son-in-law Berat Albayrak (pictured) to lead the newly empowered Finance Ministry. This has raised concerns over the central bank's independence given the president’s repeated statements against raising interest rates. Erdogan has not inspired confidence in responding to the lira meltdown. He speaks of "economic war" and a "campaign" waged by external powers designed to weaken Turkey. Instead of taking drastic action to shore up confidence, such as raising interest rates or going to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the government is couching itself in nationalistic rhetoric of sacrifice. Inflation and landmark projects Greater economic prosperity has been one of the pillars of Erdogan's popularity in his over 15 years in power, with the country seeing impressive growth rates such as 7.4 percent in 2017. But economists have repeatedly warned that Turkey's debt-fueled growth push will eventually lead to a potentially dangerous overheating of the economy, with inflation rampant, the currency account deficit widening and doubts over the health of the banking system. Those problems came to light in August when a diplomatic spat with the United States caused a crash in the value of the lira, sparking fears of a full-blown economic crisis. In August, headline inflation surged to 18 percent, while the Turkish currency lost about 14 percent to the US dollar, taking depreciation to a total of 40 percent in 2018. Read more: Istanbul locals feeling the pinch of Turkey's economic crisis Now, the government expects inflation to continue to rise to 20.8 percent by the end of the year, before moderating only slightly to 15.9 percent in 2019. For 2020 and 2021, the forecasts were more optimistic, with rates of 9.8 percent in 2020 and 6.0 percent a year later. One of the measures to achieve this is a reduction in spending on showpiece infrastructure projects that have accounted for a large proportion of government expenditure. Albayrak said that in 2019 projects whose tender had not been carried out would be "suspended" and vowed Turkey would create two million new job opportunities by 2021. Read more: Turkey's Erdogan names himself head of state wealth fund Unemployment is nevertheless projected to rise to 11.3 percent in 2018 and 12.1 percent in 2019 before falling to 11.9 percent in 2020, according to the government's estimate. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34tab Doubts remain The economic plan came a week after Turkey's central bank won praise from some investors for raising interest rates by 6.25 percent to tame inflation and put a floor under the lira. The currency had made moderate gains on the decision climbing to 6.2541 on Wednesday. Read more: Turkish interest rate rise brings Erdoganomics down to earth On Thursday though, markets only gave a lukewarm welcome to Albayrak's announcements, with the lira trading slightly lower against the dollar at 6.27 percent. Apparently, investors want to see a stronger commitment from the government to move away from credit-fueled growth toward more fiscal discipline. Nora Neuteboom, economist at ABN Amro, said Albayrak was "still quite ambitious" on growth even with the downscaled targets. "Many banks and rating agencies expect Turkey to face a recession in 2019," she told the news agency AFP, adding that Turkey needed a "broad reform plan" to tackle key challenges like low productivity and a rigid labor market. David Gardner chief economist for Turkey at the Spanish bank BBVA, noted that Ankara was willing to accept "lower but more sustainable growth." But he added that he would have wished for more details on how the government wants to make up for a $2.6-billion shortfall in revenue due to lower growth. And economists at QNB Finansbank in Istanbul said that the projections were promising as "they indicate that government recognizes the need to give up on the ambitious growth targets to stabilize the economy". But they said it remains to be seen how resolute the government will be in delivering the rebalancing promised by Albayrak. "They talked the talk and it remains to be seen whether they will walk the walk." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34mw0 uhe/tr (Reuters, AFP, dpa) 