A court in Chile on Friday handed prison sentences to 20 ex-members of General Augusto Pinochet's secret police for the kidnapping and murder of 12 people between 1975 and 1977. Most of the victims were abducted in Argentina, Paraguay and Bolivia before being taken to Chile to be tortured and killed. Some are still officially listed as missing. Two of the former agents, Christoph Willeke Floel and Raul Iturriaga Neumann, were sentenced to 17 years in jail. Five others were given 15 years, while the remaining defendants were handed sentences raging from 10 years to 100 days. More than 30 other ex-agents were acquitted. Read more: Ex-Ford executives on trial for aiding 1970s dictatorship torture September 11, 1973, changed the lives of many Chileans forever. General Augusto Pinochet, commander in chief of the Chilean army, overthrew the incumbent socialist president, Salvador Allende. The military bombarded the presidential palace "La Moneda" in the capital Santiago, arrested government supporters, leftists and Pinochet opponents. The socialist president had only been in office for three years before the coup. After having nationalized companies and dispossessed great land owners, his government faced massive opposition. The US didn't approve of the socialist leader in South America either. With the help of the CIA, Washington boycotted Allende's economic policies and incited Chile's media against the government. President Allende committed suicide on the day of the coup, stating in his farewell speech that his commitment to Chile did not allow him to take an easy way out. The photo above shows soldiers and firefighters carrying his body from the presidential palace. Meanwhile, the Estadio Nacional stadium was used as a concentration camp: 40,000 people were detained there, thousands tortured and killed. Walter Ramirez, cameraman for DW's "After the Escape" feature, was also arrested. A student at the time, he was walking with a friend when soldiers arrested the two of them on September 11, 1973. His friend not only had long hair, he also had Argentinian pesos on him, which he needed to travel to his wife and son in Argentine. For days, the alleged "traitors" were kept in the national stadium. Walter Ramirez and his friend were locked into a changing room with nearly 100 other men. They all needed to share two bathrooms, while bored soldiers shot at the windows. After several days, Walter and his friend were released. To this day, he doesn't know why. Could it be because his father worked for a US company? The topic is taboo in his family. The head behind the coup was General Augusto Pinochet, supreme commander of the armed forces. He governed Chile from 1973 until 1990 in a dictatorial style. Political parties and leftist trade unions were forbidden. Freedom of opinion ceased to exist. Despite all this, the Pinochet regime continued to be supported by the US, as well as some politicians in Germany. Chilean artists, writers and intellectuals were also persecuted. Song writer Victor Jara was arrested, tortured and shot to death in a basketball stadium in Santiago. Books written by authors regarded as bothersome were burnt on the streets. Numerous opponents of the regime were to leave Chile over the next months and years. Author and university professor Antonio Skarmeta also fled Chile in 1973. For 16 years, he lived in exile in Berlin where he wrote "Nixpassiert" (Nothing Happened) and "The Postman," two highly successful books that were adapted into film several times. Exile was a theme that would dominate his life. His story is told in the DW special feature, "After the Escape." Another internationally acclaimed writer who left Chile is Isabel Allende, author of the bestseller "The House of the Spirits." In 1975, the journalist and women's rights activist fled to Venezuela. Incidentally, President Salvador Allende was not her uncle, as is often claimed, but the cousin of her father. In her novel "Paula," she describes her years in exile. She now lives in the US. In August 1987, dictator Augusto Pinochet oversaw a military parade in honor of the 14th anniversary of his coup (picture). But his days were counted. A national referendum on his political future was planned for October 1988. The opponents of his dictatorship mobilized all available forces. With a spectacular action, they initiated change for Chile. In October 1988, the Chilean population decided whether or not Augusto Pinochet should run as the sole candidate during the next elections. Yes or no? A colorful campaign mobilized the masses. A majority dared to say no. It was the beginning of the end of the dictatorship. In 1990, Pinochet passed on power to Christian Democrat Patricio Aylwin (right). However, until 1998, Pinochet kept serving as supreme commander of the armed forces. Implicated in over 300 criminal charges, a final verdict wasn't reached by the International Criminal Court before Augusto Pinochet's death at the age of 91, on December 10, 2006. It took a long time for Chile to deal with its former dictatorship. Democracy has by no means solved all problems. On this photo from March 2017, people demonstrate against the AFP pension system, which was privatized during the Pinochet era and still excludes many people from obtaining a pension. The dictatorship continues to haunt the country, but at least people can now demonstrate for change. Author: Susanne Spröer (ad) Campaign of state terror In court, Judge Mario Corroza said Chile and the other three countries "not only agreed to detain the victims, but also created the conditions to lock them up and move them to our country with the sinister plan of confining them in secret places to interrogate and torture them and then proceed, with extreme cruelty, to eliminate them." During the 1970s, the right-wing dictatorships of Chile, Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay collaborated under Operation Condor, the code name for a US-backed campaign of political repression and state terror. Read more: South American leaders on trial for Condor Plan crimes Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/18BmX Chile's secret police, the DINA, has been found responsible for carrying out multiple human rights violations, including killings, rape, torture and kidnappings under the country's 1973-90 dictatorship. Dozens of former soldiers have already been sentenced for such crimes. The overthrow of Socialist President Salvador Allende in 1973 and the political repression that followed prompted many left-wing activists to flee the country. More than 3,000 Chileans were murdered by state agents during Pinochet's rule. Tens of thousands of others were kidnapped, imprisoned or tortured. More than 1,000 people are still listed as missing. Read more: Chile arrests former Pinochet aide over alleged human rights abuses Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34yk5 nm/jlw (EFE, epd, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.