By far the most exciting thing about the film The Man Who Killed Don Quixote, which opens today in theaters across Germany and different European countries, is its epic production history that began in 1989. But Terry Gilliam's film, which premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in May, is ultimately a disappointment — at least artistically. After 29 years of development, endless shoots, prolonged interruptions, completely new casts, and fall outs with various producers, the film is, however, finally hitting the big screen. That's the good news. Orson Welles also started on his adaptation of Don Quixote — but it was never completed Daring to dream Gilliam's decades-long journey to make a film that was doomed to never make it to the cinema was already immortalized in Lost in La Mancha, a 2002 documentary that poked fun at the director's failing attempt to get his pet project off the ground. But 16 years later, it can be said that the documentary's directors Keith Fulton and Louis Pepe spoke too soon, with the revered director of Brazil and 12 Monkeys doggedly completing the film he always believed would be made. "I just kept going on and on," he told the Guardian before its Cannes premiere in May. "I've never been able to explain why I was so determined, obsessed to make it. After a point I realized that if you're going to do Quixote you've got to become Quixote. You've got to have ups and downs." Read more:  Brecht, Terry Gilliam and Emma Thompson celebrated at the Munich Film Festival Spanish novelist Miguel de Cervantes (1547-1616), circa 1600. 'Don Quixote' is considered his greatest work and was published in 1605 and 1615 The British-American writer, actor, animator and director who rose to fame with the Monty Python troupe in the 1970s had long had a dream to bring the great 17th century adventure novel, Don Quixote, to celluloid. In the year 2000, financing had been approved and filming began. But soon the budget ran out. Moreover, lead actor Jean Rochefort fell seriously ill. The project had to be stopped. Disasters, dramas and financing problems Gilliam's struggles to realize his passion project, which also featured then-star Johnny Depp, were soon laid bare in the docudrama Lost in La Mancha. But Gilliam didn't give up. A few years later he made another attempt, now with new cast members Robert Duvall and Ewan McGregor. But again the filming was abandoned, largely because the locations were devastated by storms. But two years ago, and after eight failed attempts, Gilliam managed to shoot the whole film. Again there were new actors, and this time a completely reworked story and new producer — with whom Gilliam again fell out with. Adam Driver's involvement in the project helped its completion The final version is the story of a smug advertising director, Toby (Adam Driver), who is is confronted with his past when he is given the chance to direct a high-budget feature about Don Quixote in Spain. Ten years before, Toby was an idealistic young filmmaker who nearby filmed a black-and-white, neorealist version of the story of the sad knight. As the director starts to revisit his former passion project, he himself assumes Don Quixote's alter ego. A triumph — of sorts Perhaps the decades of work have simply strained the nerves of all those involved in the project: The Man Who Killed Don Quixote seems overloaded and overambitious with its interlaced narrative construction. The main plot, an attempt to mirror Gilliam's own production failures, hardly grabs the audience — which might explain why the critical reaction in Cannes and at this year's Munich Film Festival was very restrained. But for all its failures, The Man Who Killed Don Quixote is a triumph for simply making it to the big screen. “The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha” was written by Spanish author, poet and playwright Miguel de Cervantes. He died in Madrid on 23 April 1616 and a monument to him has stood in Plaza de España since 1930. During his adventurous lifetime he was a soldier, tax collector and even a prison inmate. His novel is considered a masterpiece of world literature. Where better to start tracing Don Quixote’s footsteps than the UNESCO World Heritage city of Alcalá. Cast in metal, he and fellow literary hero Sancho Panza sit outside the house where Cervantes was born in 1547 to an impoverished aristocratic family. His exact date of birth is unknown, but it’s thought to be September 29. A trip to the house gives visitors a wonderful taste of his checkered life. The “Ruta de Don Quijote” begins south of Madrid and criss-crosses the La Mancha region. When the 11 windmills of Consuegra appear on the horizon, you know you have almost reached the scene of Quixote’s most famous adventure – his battle with the windmills. Visitors can also look around the Sancho Panza mill, which still has the original grinding mechanism from the time of Cervantes. Don Quixote, down on one knee in the historic center of El Toboso, adoring Dulcinea del Toboso just as he did in the novel. Tradition has it that the woman who provided Cervantes’ inspiration for Dulcinea lived in this dwelling in El Toboso. It now houses a museum about rural life in La Mancha 400 years ago. Visitors can see also see the 200 plus copies of Quixote signed by various famous figures. In the novel, Don Quixote discovers that Merlin the wizard turned Lady Ruidera and her daughters into lagoons. These “Lagunas de Ruidera” are now a UNESCO biosphere reserve in the heart of La Mancha and are considered some of Spain’s most beautiful wetlands, made up of 15 lakes connected by small waterfalls and rivers brimming with fish. Spain has around 10,000 caves in total. Some are open to the public and are popular with tourists. The Cave of Montesinos is one of them. In Cervantes’ novel Don Quixote descends into this cave where he has an imaginary encounter with the magician Montesinos and travels through time. Nowadays tourists take literary or geological tours into the depths. At the bottom there is a gushing river. The characters in Don Quixote also have to eat and drink, of course. And on the way back to Madrid, tourists can follow in Don Quixote’s footsteps in Puerto Lápice, for example, whose taverns are mentioned by Cervantes. There you can sample simple hearty dishes with lots of vegetables, saffron, accompanied by bread, the world-famous Manchego cheese and a young wine from the region. Cervantes claims to have based the story of Don Quixote on a historical manuscript written by an Arab historian that he found in Toledo. The region’s capital in the north of Castilla-La Mancha was made into a UNESCO world heritage site in 1986. You shouldn’t miss the cathedral, the Mosque Cristo de la Luz and synagogues, like El Tránsito – a legacy of the city’s multicultural past. Author: Frederike Müller/jg