US President Donald Trump opened a meeting of the UN Security Council on Wednesday with an attack on Iran and a pledge to ensure Tehran never obtains a nuclear bomb. It was the first time Trump had chaired a session of the Council on countering nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. He used the occasion to accuse Iran of sponsoring terrorism and fueling "conflict around the region and far beyond." The US backed out of a 2015 nuclear accord with Iran in May and has since been steadily reimposing sanctions on the Islamic Republic. The American president warned world leaders at the UN that "all US nuclear-related sanctions will be in full force by early November," adding that countries who didn't comply would face "severe consequences." Read more: Trump administration a 'real threat' to Middle East US President Trump signed an executive order on August 5 aimed at piling financial pressure on Tehran to force a "comprehensive and lasting solution" to Iranian threats, including its development of missiles and regional "malign" activities. Trump warned that those who don't wind down their economic ties to Iran "risk severe consequences." The first phase, which took effect on August 7, targets the Islamic Republic's access to US banknotes, making transactions in a US-dollar dominated financial world difficult. A ban on Iran purchasing precious metals including gold further serves as an attempt to cut the country off from global markets. Phase one also hits key industries including the purchase of commercial planes, cars and carpets. Iranian imports of graphite, aluminum, steel, coal, gold and some software are also affected. German automaker Daimler called off the production and sale of Mercedes-Benz trucks in Iran indefinitely after the sanctions came into force. A second phase of sanctions — which is due to take effect on November 5 and will block Iran's oil sales — is due to cause more damage. Several countries, however, including China, India and Turkey have indicated they are not willing to entirely cut their Iranian energy purchases. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the United States had launched "psychological warfare" against Iran to create division amongst its people. But he insisted that Iran still can rely on its allies China and Russia to keep its oil and banking sectors afloat. He has also demanded compensation for decades of American "intervention" in the Islamic Republic. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc is encouraging small and medium enterprises to increase their business with Iran. She said Tehran has been compliant with their nuclear-related commitments. The EU issued a "blocking statute" to protect European businesses from the impact of the sanctions. Author: Keith Walker French President Emmanuel Macron, who spoke directly after Trump, called for "a long-term strategy to manage the crisis that cannot be reduced to a policy of sanctions and containment of Iran." Allegations of Chinese election meddling Trump accused China of attempting to interfere in the upcoming midterm elections in the US but did not present evidence for his claim. "They do not want me or us to win because I am the first president ever to challenge China on trade and we are winning on trade, we are winning at every level," he said. US intelligence officials have previously blamed Russia for meddling in the 2016 US presidential election. Read more: Huge US-China punitive tariffs take effect Contradictory statements on Russia, Iran Trump condemned the ongoing Syria conflict, saying that the "Syrian regime's butchery" had been "enabled by Russia and Iran." At the same time, he thanked Iranian, Russian and Syrian governments for "substantially slowing down" a military offensive on the last Syrian rebel stronghold, Idlib. He also praised Britain and France for supporting US strikes in response to the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons against civilians. Read more: Syria conflict: What do the US, Russia, Turkey and Iran want? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2w2in Praise for North Korea Trump said he had a "wonderful relationship" with Kim Jong Un after his landmark summit with the North Korean leader in June, but stressed that sanctions had to be enforced until denuclearization occurs. "Kim Jong Un, a man I have gotten to know and like, wants peace and prosperity for North Korea," Trump said, adding that he could imagine relations with Iran eventually progressing along a similar "trajectory." Trump is one of around 130 world leaders attending the General Assembly this week in New York. During his speech before the chamber on Tuesday, Trump's praise of his own administration's achievements drew derisive laughter from world leaders. Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump's UN speech makes authoritarians great again nm/kms (Reuters, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.