After five straight defeats, Domenico Tedesco and Schalke finally have their first win of the season thanks to Alessandro Schöpf's 11th-minute header. Yevhen Konoplyanka hit the bar twice for the Royal Blues in the second half - once from a free-kick and once on the volley - before Mainz put the hosts under pressure late on. But they held on for a vital win which relieves some of the pressure on coach Tedesco. Drama and disaster in Stuttgart After Bayern dropped points for the second time this week away at Hertha Berlin on Friday night, high-flying Werder Bremen had the chance to go top of the Bundesliga with a win - but went a goal and a man down in the first half in Stuttgart. Anastasios Donis gave the Swabians an early lead before Milos Veljkovic saw a second yellow card before the break. But the drama was only just beginning. In the 68th minute, Borna Sosa took an inocuous throw-in, throwing the ball back to Ron-Robert Zieler. But the ball bobbled on the turf and bounced over the goalkeeper's foot and into the goal - catching him on the way in, ensuring that the bizarre own-goal stood and drawing Bremen level. The visitors were the better team in the second half but Gonzalo Castro restored Stuttgart's lead - his first goal since joining from Borussia Dortmund. Substitute Nicolas Gonzalez had four good chances to increase Stuttgart's lead in the closing stages but an exciting game ended 2-1. Full-time scores: Schalke 1-0 Mainz Stuttgart 2-1 Bremen Wolfsburg 2-2 Gladbach Hoffenheim 1-2 RB Nürnberg 3-0 Düsseldorf Leverkusen - Dortmund (18:30 CET) Ron-Robert Zieler scrambles back but can't rescue the situation after his blunder. As it happened: +++ FULL-TIME! +++ Schalke 1-0 Mainz Stuttgart 2-1 Bremen 90+1' Stuttgart: Gonzalez (who else?) hits the side-netting. Still 2-1. 90+1' Mateta beats Nastasic to the ball but his effort is deflected over for a corner ... which is eventually cleared. Mainz piling on the pressure! 89' Schalke are sitting deeper and deeper as Ujah's header is easily dealt with by Fährmann. Into stoppage time in Gelsenkirchen ... 88' Another chance for Gonzalez! This time, Sosa's cross bobbles under his foot. He could have had a hat-trick in the last ten minutes alone! 86' Didavi chips the ball home for Stuttgart but he's clearly offside and the goal doesn't count. 84' Gonzalez again for Stuttgart! One-on-one again with Pavlenka but the goalkeeper comes out on top and it remains 2-1. Will Stuttgart live to rue these missed chances? At the other end, Sahin fires just over for Bremen ... 80' In Gelsenkirchen, Mainz are turning to long balls in their efforts to rescue something from the game. Schalke still on course for their first win - their first points! - of the season ... ten minutes to go though. 81' A chance for Gonzalez to make it 3-1 to Stuttgart but Pavlenka saves well one-on-one. 74' CROSSBAR! Schalke have hit the bar again! This time it's Konoplyanka with a volley after good build-up play from Mckennie and Burgstaller. Mainz are riding their luck but Schalke's lead remains 1-0. 75' GOAL! Stuttgart 2-1 Bremen (Castro) The ball falls to Gomez from a long ball and the German international quickly feeds Gonzalo Castro in the box on the right hand side. The ex-BVB man makes no mistake and fires home to restore the Swabians' lead - and perhaps save Zieler's blushes! 71' POST! Claudio Pizarro hits the post for Bremen! What a game we have here. 68' GOAL! Stuttgart 1-1 Bremen (Zieler OG) What a calamity! Sosa takes a throw-in back to  Zieler and the ball bounces over the goalkeeper's foot and over the line! Incredible stuff! A goal cannot be scored directly from a throw-in but the ball did scrape Zieler's foot on the way past so it counts! Bremen are deservedly level but that was calamitous - the blooper of the season! 65' Yellow card for Yuya Osako for a late challenge on Benjamin Pavard. He's unlucky there. Yes, he's late but he's clearly pulled out of the challenge in good time and it's more of an unfortunate clash with the Frenchman. 62' Weston McKennie (on for Schöpf) with his first involvement plays in Harit on the left who shoots just wide. A good start from the American! 58' POST! So close for Bremen as Osako feeds in Eggestein but the German hits the post. 59' CROSSBAR! Konoplyanka curls a free-kick into the bar for Schalke after a foul by Bell. 56' Despite being a man down, Bremen are piling on the pressure in Stuttgart. They've been the better team since the break but will need to reward themselves with a goal. 50' Another good Mainz move. Baku and Mateta combine well down the left, the former getting a shot away but it's too weak to beat Fährmann. 47' Good chance for Mainz as Gbamin forces a good save from Fährmann. 46' Max Kruse fires a volley straight at Zieler in the Stuttgart goal. The visitors are a man down and a goal down but they've started the second half positively. +++ Second half +++ We're back underway across Germany +++ HALF-TIME +++ 43' In Stuttgart, Kruse lays off a free-kick to Osako but the Japanese international fires well over. It's been a frustrating afternoon so far for Werder Bremen, but could Stuttgart be heading for their first win of the season? 43' At the other end, Serdar wins the ball against his former club and immediately feeds Burgstaller and spins and gets his first shot of the game away, but Müller saves well. 42' The latest half-chance for Mainz as Baku heads over from about 13 yards out. That was always going to be difficult to trouble Fährmann. 40' In Stuttgart, Werder Bremen have switched to a back-four (Gebre Selassie, Bargfrede, Moisander, Augustinsson) since Veljkovic's red card, but it's not stopping Daniel Didavi, who beats Gebre Selassie down the left but Pavlenka claims his cross. 39' Caligiuri with another deep cross from the right. The ball comes to Konoplyanka at the back post who cuts onto his right foot but shoots high and wide. 38' In Gelsenkirchen, Bentaleb drags a long-range effort wide for Schalke, who still lead 1-0. 36' RED CARD IN STUTTGART (Veljkovic - Werder Bremen) Veljkovic tugs at Didavi on the edge of the box and is shown a second yellow! Bremen are not just a goal down; they're a man down too. 29' A chance for Mainz! Quaison cuts in from the left and shoots just wide. Fährmann looked beaten. 31' Down in Stuttgart, Werder are coming back into the game, camped in the Stuttgart half with a series of corners. Eggestein darts into the box and goes down but he was looking for it. There was no need to go down there - he could have shot! 26' In contrast to recent weeks, Schalke look energetic and combative, looking to break quickly after winning the ball. Their 1-0 lead is very much deserved so far. 26' Free-kick for Stuttgart on the left hand side of the box after Bargfrede fouls Donis but the opportunity comes to nothing. 23' Almost an own-goal from Mainz! Harit cuts the ball back from the by-line where Bell almost diverts it into his own net, but goalkeeper Florian Müller is on hand to save. 22' A chance to hit back straight away for Werder Bremen! Klaasen dribbles through the centre and the ball falls to Gebre Selassie at the back post who has acres of space but drags his shot wide. Big chance for the visitors. 19' GOAL! Stuttgart 1-0 Bremen (Donis) A lovely throughball from Didavi finds Donis who sprints away from Veljkovic and around Pavlenka before slotting the ball into the empty net, and Werder are behind. 19' Caligiuri does well down the right wing for Schalke but his cross is beyond the blue shirts in the centre. 13' In Stuttgart, the hosts are enjoying a spell of pressure. Mario Gomez has had a couple of half-sights of goal, this time heading goalwards from Gentner's cross. 11' GOAL! Schalke 1-0 Mainz (Schöpf) The Austrian heads home at the front post from Konoplyanka's cross. 4' The first half chance in Gelsenkirchen falls to the visitors as Mateta fires over for Mainz. +++ KICK-OFF +++ We're underway in the five afternoon kick-offs. +++ Guten Tag! Welcome to live coverage of matchday 6 in the Bundesliga +++ With Bayern dropping points for the second time in a week, top spot in the Bundesliga is up for grabs! Borussia Dortmund travel to Bayer Leverkusen later but first, Werder Bremen travel to struggling Stuttgart. Elsewhere, Domenico Tedesco is under pressure in Gelsenkirchen as Schalke welcome Mainz looking for their first points of the season. Keep up to date with the action from both games here - plus live score updates from the other games.