A regional court in the German city of Darmstadt on Friday sentenced an Afghan asylum seeker to seven years in prison for a stabbing attack on his 17-year-old ex-girlfriend. The court found the Afghan national guilty of seriously injuring his ex-girlfriend with a knife shortly before Christmas last year. The girl suffered 17 stab wounds to the back, neck and chest, said presiding judge Marc Euler. An emergency operation saved her life. The young man came to Germany as a refugee in 2015 claiming to be a minor. It was determined that he is about 17 years old and he was sentenced according to juvenile law. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2z9gK 'Extremely brutal' crime Euler said the motive for the "extremely brutal" crime was that the young man had been unable to cope with the fact that his girlfriend had ended their relationship. The two teenagers had met for a final conversation in a remote street when the incident took place. Euler said the victim continues to suffer both physically and psychologically from the attack, saying she experiences pain while breathing and is afraid to outside. Read more: Domestic violence affects over 100,000 women in Germany The court considered the fact that the young man had confessed to the crime at the police station in the evening the same day, had not been previously convicted and had acted "spontaneously." He was also under the influence of alcohol at the time. The public prosecutor's office had demanded seven years and six months in juvenile detention, while the defense pleaded for four years. The ruling comes after a court in southern Germany on Monday sentenced an asylum seeker, believed to be from Afghanistan, to eight years and six months in prison for stabbing his 15-year-old ex-girlfriend to death in the town of Kandel just after Christmas last year. Prosecutors have filed an appeal against the sentence. In another case currently before a court in the northern city of Flensburg, a young man from Afghanistan is on trial for stabbing his 17-year-old ex-girlfriend to death. An expert has testified that he was at least 21 years old at the time the crime took place. Russia's lower house of parliament, the Duma, passed a controversial bill known as the "slapping law." It says that a man who beats his wife, but manages to leave only bruises or abrasions, will no longer be guilty of a crime. The violence is classed as an administrative offense. Tattoo artist, Yevgeniya Zakhar, gives free tattoos to victims of domestic abuse, to cover their scars. Yevgeniya posted an ad on her social media page last year, offering to ink abused women for free, after hearing about a Brazilian tattoo artist who came up with the idea. Soon, she was flooded with requests - and became so stressed hearing her clients' stories of beatings and burnings, that she had to limit the number of women she sees to one day a week. Guldar, who is getting a tattoo on her belly, cringes with pain. Yevgenia explains, "I didn't expect to be inundated with clients. I had to work on two to four women per day. It's really scary to see the extent of this problem and hear what people are saying." Yevgeniya works in Ufa, a city about 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) east of Moscow. Domestic violence is a long-standing problem in Russia. Police estimate that about 40 percent of all violent crimes take place within families. In 2013 alone, around 9,100 Russian women died as a consequence of domestic violence. Another 11,300 suffered severe injuries, says human rights advocate Anna Rivina, head of the project "Nasiliju.Net" (No to Violence). Yevgeniya shows the scars left on her client Lilya. Women usually pick butterflies or floral designs to cover the visible signs of abuse. They confide in the artist, sharing the horrors of relationships that turned viciously violent. Transforming the scars into something of their own choosing boosts the womens' self-esteem and helps them gain new perspectives on the trauma. Yevgeniya hugs a client. She has tattooed more than 1,000 women at no cost since she started reaching out to abuse victims last year. She says not one reported receiving help from police. "Girls are willing to talk, often because it will be the last time they speak about the scars," she said. "They don't talk about it later because they will be talking about their beautiful tattoo, not a scar." Author: Nadine Berghausen law/bw (dpa, epd)