Are you a frequent flyer? Then you might want to wash your hands after touching airport surfaces. Like, every time. The fact that we can now travel nationally and internationally in short amounts of time means that the spread of infectious diseases has increased drastically. Read More: Measles cases soaring in Europe, WHO warns Recently, a team of researchers from the United Kingdom and Finland studied various surfaces at Finland's main airport, Helsinki-Vantaa. When we sneeze thousands of germs are released into the air, traveling up to 8 meters They tested these areas for different types of respiratory viruses, such as the rhinovirus, coronavirus, adenovirus, and influenza A. The researchers took swabs from armrests, handrails, children's toys in the play area, trolley handles, luggage trays at the security area, and toilet locks, lids, and flushes. Their results showed that 10 percent of examined surfaces carried respiratory viruses. The most common virus was the rhinovirus, which causes the common cold. And the highest concentration of viruses was found on the trays at the security checkpoint. Read more: England hit by 50 year spike in scarlet fever At airports — and all other public spaces — people should make sure to frequently wash their hands with soap and water. Another way you can help: Cough and sneeze into a tissue or the crook of your arm. Often, the first sign of illness is cold feet, which is why socks and slippers play such a vital role in the German wardrobe. "Germans struggle enormously with the concept of 'naked feet,'" Australian writer Liv Hambrett noted in her book, "What I Know about Germans." Whether wool socks can combat a virus or if they simply serve as a placebo for fending off a fever's chills remains to be seen. The German answer to many of life's problems can be found in the sauna; the steam baths and hot cabins are said to be strengthen the immune system when used in the proper order. While it's not recommended to go in if you have a fever, the German Sauna Organization says the sauna can actually help a cold as the shift from hot to cold increases circulation in the mucus membranes. In keeping with the advice to never allow the body to get cold, for stomach ailments or muscle aches, doctors will often advise a day spent cuddling with a hot water bottle in bed. Some say the increased circulation brought on by the heat eases bloating and indigestion. Just make sure the top is screwed on tight to prevent burns. Ginger has long played a role in ayurvedic and Traditional Chinese Medicine; it's been recognized for its powers to curb nausea and motion sickness. In Germany, ginger is also often brewed into a tea - cut into cubes and plopped into boiling water. The stinging effect it has as it slides down your throat is said to relieve soreness brought on by a cold. While Koreans believe in the health-inducing properties of kim chi, fermented cabbage, Germans find sauerkraut a must-eat for staying healthy. Loaded with vitamin C and flavonoids, the popular dish is said to be a virus-fighting powerhouse and unsurpassed digestive aid to be consumed throughout the year to fend off germs. However, eating it is perhaps a better option than bathing in it. Ginger isn't the only spice that Germans brew in hot water and call tea. Depending on your ailment, you may be told to drink sage, oregano, peppermint, fennel, chamomile or an herbal tea to ease your pain. It may taste like licking a medicine cabinet, but at the very least, the time spent sipping tea can relax one enough to feel better momentarily. "Gute Besserung" - get well soon! Lemons and other citrus fruits are packed full of vitamin C. Even though the vitamin hasn't been proven to prevent colds, drinking lemon juice with hot water sooths sore throats and is a good detoxer. If the simple beverage is too sour for you, add a spoonful of honey. Author: Courtney Tenz