An unprecedented 68.5 million people have been forced from their homes worldwide, according to the United Nations Refugee Agency, UNHCR. The refugee situation was also on the agenda at this year's International Literature Festival (ilb) in Berlin, which ended on September 15. In the framework of the Refugees Worldwide project, several authors presented essays about the refugees' plight, and their own interaction with asylum-seekers. Their reports are included in in the upcoming book Refugees Worldwide, volume II. Karen Connelly: A learning process for newcomers and supporters Among the reporters featured in the book, Karen Connelly was born in Canada and still lives there with her family. The writer/humans rights activist/therapist has published 11 books, including award-winning works. Connelly has traveled and spent time in Thailand, Spain, France, the Middle East, North Africa and Myanmar. Since 1992, she has had a second home on the Greek island of Lesbos, where she helped raise money for the Greek Starfish emergency service for refugees. Karen Connelly Growing up in a country that has taken in many immigrants, she says she has always had an interest in refugees and can't remember a time when the issue wasn't one of her current preoccupations. Connelly is part of a group of volunteers who help refugees integrate and become regular citizens, which includes sponsoring them financially for a year. Her contribution to the book, "In Your Hands," is an essay about her experience as a volunteer with a family of Syrian Bedouins in Canada. Connelly discusses the learning process that not only newcomers have to go through; as a helper, she realized she couldn't project her own expectations onto them: "They kept doing things that I didn't like them to do. I worked very hard to help Halal to get on to birth control. And the first thing she did when I went away for six weeks was go off it and get pregnant," she writes. "How ungrateful of her, that was what my attitude was. But then I realized, it has nothing to do with me, if she needs to have another baby. I had to get over my own western preconceptions of what 'these people' were supposed to do." Melba Escobar: When the role of a country suddenly changes Melba Escobar de Nogales Melba Escobar de Nogales lives in Bogota, Columbia.  The children's book author is a reporter for the daily El Pais in Cali. Over the past few months, she has conducted about 20 interviews with refugees on the border to Venezuela for her essay in Refugees Worldwide. In Columbia, the drug trade and guerrilla warfare have internally displaced about two million people, the author says, adding that the country has taken in at least one million additional refuges from neighboring Venezuela over the past three years. "The refugees are in a really desperate situation, they are basically running from starvation," Escobar says. Just six years ago, Venezuela was the richest country in South America, she points out, adding that the current situation is decidedly odd: "We were always the poor country, people were escaping from Columbia to Venezuela!" Charmaine Craig: Migrants' strength a blessing Charmaine Craig, whose mother and grandparents emigrated to the US from Burma, teaches literature classes in LA. Her 2017 novel, Miss Burma, was on US best-seller lists for a long time. Charmaine Craig Craig's contribution to the Refugees Worldwide II project is a story of two Burmese girls who were sold as child slaves to Malaysia. After eight years of begging in the streets, Tete and her friend landed in the US. Craig shares an aspect that came up again and again during her research, which is that people concentrate too much on the social burden and strain that can be caused by welcoming people into one's home, instead of discussing how it's a blessing. Having people with these life stories and such resiliency here is an extraordinary opportunity, Craig argues. Ibrahim Nasrallah: The Palestinians' story of flight Ibrahim Nasrallah spent his childhood and teenage years in the Al-Wehdat Palestinian refugee camp. He worked as a journalist for 20 years and published award-winning poetry and prose. In 1985, the Guardian voted his debut novel, Prairies of Fever, one of the 10 most important novels about the Arab world. Ibrahim Nasrallah Nasrallah writes about his own past as a Palestinian refugee. Palestinians have been refugees for the past 70 years, he says, and adds that currently, two million of his people are captive in Gaza. He writes about hardship and the close quarters in the camp. "Many of my friends have died of hunger or disease." While he bases his essay on his own background, he nevertheless believes people can write about the painful refugee experience without necessarily having lived it: "I think that parts of the aesthetics of writing is that we are able to write about death without having to die" The first volume of Refugees Worldwide, edited by Ulrich Schreiber and Luisa Donnerberg, was published in 2017. Refugees Worldwide II, which will come out in 2019, includes stories by 16 authors. Ai Weiwei's documentary Human Flow presents the problem in a globalized context. The Chinese artist aims to draw attention to the refugees' plight, and generate compassion for them. His documentary premiered at the Venice Film Festival and is now released in Germany. The title of the film The Boat is Full (1980) has become idiomatic. In this movie, Swiss director Markus Imhoof depicted the fate of six people who had fled from the Nazi regime. At the time, films about refugees were typically set in the context of a historical conflict. Many European films featuring refugees describe the fate of people fleeing to Europe. In comparison, there are way less movies set in Africa, dealing with the causes of flight and migration. In Hotel Rwanda (2004), director Terry George from Northern Ireland focuses on an episode of the Rwandan genocide from 1994. Two years ago, Greek director Panos Karkanevatos shocked audiences with his film Riverbanks. Here, refugees taking off from Turkey with the aim of reaching Greece have to face several problems at once at the border river Evros. Smugglers exploit their situation, and the region has been mined during earlier conflicts between Turkey and Greece. The French film Welcome (2009), by director Philippe Lioret, focuses on the fate of an Iraqi-Kurdish boy who wants to cross the Channel to Britain. Another character in the film is a French swimming teacher who supports the boy. It's a moving drama on humanity and friendship. Like his colleague Philippe Lioret, Finnish director Aki Kaurismäki tells the story of a refugee boy trying to get from France to Britain. In Le Havre (2001), Idrissa from Gabon makes the acquaintance of an older and unsuccessful writer. And like in Welcome, the film depicts how a relation develops between the man and the boy. In 2017, the Finnish director moved his audiences once again with a heartwarming film on the same topic. The Other Side of Hope premiered at the Berlinale. The protagonist is a Syrian refugee stranded in Helsinki. In scenes showing an encounter between Khaled and textile merchant Waldemar, the film showcases Kaurismäki's typical bizarre sense of humor. Last year, German director Simon Verhoeven daringly approached the difficult topic with a satirical touch. His comedy turned out to be a hit in the country dealing with a strong influx of refugees. Willkommen bei den Hartmanns (Welcome to the Hartmanns') tells the story of a German family which has welcomed a refugee in their home. Long before the current debates about the refugee crisis emerged, German director Andreas Dresen shot his film Nightshapes in 1999. It's all about a German businessman encountering a young refugee boy from Angola in Berlin. The latter immediately starts to cling to the old man, initiating an unusual friendship. Two years ago, French director Jacques Audiard was awarded a Palme d'Or in Cannes for his refugee drama Dheepan. It tells the story of a family from Sri Lanka that has found a new home in France, in a rough Parisian suburban housing project. The refugees face another type of conflicts in their new home. The film Mediterranea from 2015 shows what two African refugees have to go through shortly after their arrival in Europe. American-Italian director Jonas Carpignano depicts the fate of two friends, Ayiva and Abas from Burkina Faso, who made it to southern Italy, where they face more hostility and violence. Last year, Italian director Gianfranco Rosi shocked viewers at the Berlinale with his documentary Fire at Sea. The winner of the Golden Bear depicted the fate of refugees fleeing across the Mediterranean to Europe. Some of them die along the way. Although Ai Weiwei's Human Flow is more ambitious in its expanse, critics found this documentary more convincing. Author: Jochen Kürten (ad)