Bayern Munich begin their Champions League campaign away in Lisbon, on Wednesday, against S.L. Benfica. For the Portuguese heavyweight, it will be a david and goliath struggle, with Bayern have won five of the last encounters between the two. For Munich, it will be a key test for Niko Kovac, who will be managing his first CL with a wounded team. Bayern fans would have expected a smooth ride through the group stage. Having drawn Benfica, Ajax Amsterdam and AEK Athens, they won't yet face any top European teams. But after Bundesliga Match 3, three key players are out with serious injuries. The match against Benfica will force Kovac to make some tough decisions. Read more: Bayern Munich recover from early shock to beat ten-man Bayer Leverkusen Pressure on Kovac Bayern are coming into Wednesday's game with three straight victories and nine goals scored. While Kovac will be coaching his first Champions League game, he is not be a total stranger to the competition, having 17 appearances as a player under his belt. But the pressure is on, as the fans and management are surely expecting nothing but a win in Lisbon and the responsibility will fall squarely on Kovac, who was brought in with the precise goal of snapping Bayern out of its disappointing record in CL football. Read more: Five things that could cause Bayern Munich trouble in 2018-19 Expectations are high, but club CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge warned against over-confidence ahead of the match. "It is important that we start well. We are the favorites but I warn against underestimating this group," he said. Müller's 100th Thomas Müller is fit and likely to be on the pitch Tuesday night. This would mark his 100th Champions League appearance and he would become the 35th player to do so. He could be joined in the midfield by Leon Goretzka, who had an injury scare in training yesterday, but was cleared for Lisbon. Also back on duty will be Franck Ribery, who missed Bundesliga Match 3 with an upset stomach. Having lost high-profile players Kingsley Coman, Rafinha and Corentin Tolisso to serious injuries last weekend, the door could be open for players like James and Renato Sanches to make an appearance. Both players have experience in Portugal. Sanches is a product of the Benfica academy before he arrived in Munich. James, on the other hand, played three seasons for Benfica archrival Porto and has scored against the Lisbon club once. The Colombian midfielder has not yet started for Bayern this season. In defense, goalkeeper Manuel Neuer echoed Rummenigge's caution and reflected the excitement from locker room. "We're glad it starts again. The Champions League is a special competition of course, you start from scratch there. It surely won't be easy away to Benfica. We'll have to give it everything." Read more: Bastian Schweinsteiger says goodbye to Bayern Munich with testimonial goal A tough time for Lisbon Benfica are coming into the game with something to prove. Their most recent performance in the last Champions League was beyond disappointing, having exited the championship at the group stage, with no points earned. The history with Bayern is bitter. In 2016, the Bavarians under Pep Guardiola knocked Benfica out of the quarter-finals. This will be their 38th Champions League appearance, the most of any club except Real Madrid and they will be led by coach Rui Vitoria, who has been with the club since 2015. Hoping to disrupt Bavaria's defense will be top-class central midfielder Pizzi and winger Eduardo Salvio, who have provided a good chunk of Benfica's goalscoring. With the absence of last year's top scorer Jonas, due to a back injury, Haris Seferovic is liklely to lead the offense for the Lisbon side. Seferovic has some history with Niko Kovac, as he arrived in Benfica from Eintracht Frankfurt 2015. There was drama even in the final game of the weekend as Freiburg and Stuttgart shared the points in a six-goal thriller. Jerome Gondorf scored in the first minute and from a free kick, but a brace from Mario Gomez and a first ever Bundesliga for Emiliano Insua had Stuttgart ahead. Super sub Luca Waldschmidt leveled the scores though in a dramatic return to the dugot for Christian Streich. The trend of late goals continued in Sunday's first game when Nuremberg made Werder Bremen pay for not scoring a second by equalizing in stoppage time. After a brilliant strike from outside the area by Maximilian Eggestein had given the home side the lead, Werder should have added more. And deep into stoppage time, Virgil Misidjan made the home side pay. That's three matches and three defeats for Schalke in a sorry start to the season for last year's second-placed finishers. And to make matters worse the Royal Blues face Bayern Munich next. For hosts Gladbach, it was three big points sealed with an early and a late goal. But Schalke generated many excellent chances to get back in the game, only to squander them. Emil Forsberg, Timo Werner, goal. This tried and tested formula was repeated twice as Leipzig sealed a tricky home win against stubborn opposition. A win was due, after Leipzig lost and drew their opening two. Yussuf Poulsen had opened the scoring for the hosts, while Niklas Füllkrug and Miiko Albornoz netted for Hannover. Home fans suffered an early scare at the Allianz when Leverkusen took the lead (at the second attempt) from the penalty spot. But Bayern were back in control within a quarter of an hour. Red-hot Corentin Tolisso netted another, but later picked up an injury. Arjen Robben gave the hosts the lead with a splendid volley. No prizes for guessing which foot he used. Neither could maintain their perfect record, but both the season's fast-starters remain unbeaten after their encounter. Both sides scored in stoppage time, including a cheeky low free kick underneath the wall from Ondrej Duda. However, Admir Mehmedi was on hand to restore parity for the Wolves off the bench three minutes after the 90 had elapsed. Paco Alcacer starts his Dortmund career as he means to go on, with a late goal after coming off the bench. Two super subs helped seal the win for Dortmund. Prior to Alcacer's strike, Jadon Sancho provided a magical assist for Marius Wolf, restoring Dortmund's lead at a critical stage of play, moments after Frankfurt equalized. Late goals were the order of the day on Saturday afternoon, with eight goals scored in the last five minutes across the five fixtures. Two fell in this match, first Hoffenheim's 86th-minute equalizer and then Dodi Lukebakio's winner with just two minutes left to play. As well as the Watford loanee, Arsenal loanee Reiss Nelson netted for the losers. This tussle turned into a story of disallowed goals and impact substitutions. Both sides had first-half goals disallowed, first Augsburg and then Mainz, before three substitutes scored all the goals in the last 10 minutes. Augsburg took a huge away lead, only to lose it in the dying seconds. Alexandru Maxim netted the third and final goal from range.