Kremlin critic Pyotr Verzilov is receiving treatment at the toxicology unit of a hospital in Moscow after his health unexpectedly deteriorated, Russian media reported. The media outlets cited Pussy Riot member Veronika Nikulshina, who was reportedly with Verzilov as his condition deteriorated. Verzilov is closely linked to the anti-Kremlin group and married to another member, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova. He holds both Russian and Canadian passports. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32mWd He started complaining that he was losing his eyesight on Tuesday evening, after taking a two-hour nap at his home,  said Nikulshina. "First it was his eyesight, then his ability to talk, then to walk properly," Nikulshina told the Russian Meduza website. Pussy Riot member Nikulshina leaving a detention center in Moscow in July 2018 'Very serious condition' "When the ambulance arrived, he was just answering all of the questions by saying 'no, I haven't eaten anything, I haven't taken any substances'," according to Nikulshina. During the ride to the hospital, Verzilov reportedly started suffering convulsions. He was admitted to the ICU unit and later taken to the toxicology department. The doctors reportedly refused to tell Nikulshina whether or not he had been poisoned. His wife, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, tweeted on Wednesday that Verzilov was in "very serious condition" and "possibly poisoned." Read more: Pussy Riot - politics instead of punk Wearing police uniforms, Verizilov and three Pussy Riot members invaded the pitch during the World Cup final in Moscow Interrupting the World Cup finals The Moscow-born Verzilov spent part of his school years in Toronto between 1999 and 2003, where he obtained a Canadian passport. He then returned to Moscow. He and Tolokonnikova met at the university and became members of a performance group called Voina, and later cooperated on the actions launched by the Pussy Riot. Verzilov is also one of the founders of the government-critic Mediazona website. In July 2018, Verzilov briefly invaded the pitch during the football World Cup final in Moscow alongside Nikulshina and two other Pussy Riot members. The group said the stunt was aimed to draw attention to human right abuses in Russia. They were convicted to 15 days in prison. All-girl Russian punk protest band Pussy Riot created an international storm in 2012 with a guerrilla performance in Moscow's main cathedral that called for the Virgin Mary to protect Russia against Vladimir Putin, who was elected to a new term as Russia's president a few days later. The protest attracted worldwide attention, and three members of the group were arrested. During the ensuing court hearing in Moscow in August 2012, Pussy Riot members Nadya Tolokonnikova (right), Maria Alyokhina (center) and Yekaterina Samutsevich (left) could be seen in a glass-walled cage. Support for the Pussy Riot activists came from all over the world. Pussy Riot's iconic colorful balaclava face masks allowed supporters near and far to become "members of the band." Here, a protester is arrested during a demonstration in support of Pussy Riot in 2012 in front of the Russian consulate in New York on the day a Russian judge found three members of the provocative punk band guilty of hooliganism. Pussy Riot band member Nadya Tolokonnikova looks out from a holding cell during a court hearing in April 2013. Tolokonnikova was appealing her conviction for "hooliganism motivated by religious hate," for which she was serving two years in a remote prison. Many international stars such as Madonna called for the Pussy Riot members' release. After their release from prison under an amnesty in late 2013, Pussy Riot were soon protesting again, this time at the Winter Olympics in the Russian city of Sochi. While they were preparing to sing the song "Putin Will Teach You to Love Your Motherland," a spoof on state nationalism, a Cossack militiaman who was armed with a whip attacked band member Nadya Tolokonnikova and a photographer. Masked Pussy Rot members leave a police station in Adler during the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics in February 2014. Two members of the band, Maria Alyokhina and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, were detained after they were wrongfully suspected of stealing a handbag from their hotel. By 2015, Moscow-based Maria Alyokhina (left) and Nadya Tolokonnikova increasingly traveled Europe to continue campaigning against Russian President Vladimir Putin. Here they answer questions from the audience at the 23rd Sziget (Island) Festival on Shipyard Island in Budapest, Hungary, on August 14, 2015. Here, in September 2015, Pussy Riot's Nadya Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina performed at the closing party of the "Dismaland" project by graffiti artist Banksy. The street artist described his subversive, pop-up exhibition at the derelict seafront Tropicana lido in the UK as a "bemusement park." Pussy Riot co-founder Nadya Tolokonnikova wrote her own guide to individual freedom in the face of totalitarianism, "How to Start a Revolution," which was published in 2016. She soon toured the book around the world, stopping in Berlin and at the Lit.Cologne literary festival (above). In 2016, Pussy Riot were again indulging in political provocation at home, releasing a film clip to their new protest song "Chaika" that mocks corrupt and violent Russian security agencies – under whom the jailed band members faced "endless humiliations" – after it was revealed that the country's chief prosecutor, Yuri Chaika, had links to the local mafia. Pussy Riot's criticism not only targets Russian authorities: At this performance in a San Francisco theater in February, a caricature of Donald Trump accompanied Vladimir Putin on stage. During the event, they discussed the current state of human rights in Russia, and how LGBT individuals and political activists in prison are affected. On August 6, 2017, Pussy Riot members Maria Alyokhina and Olga Borisova held flares and a banner on a bridge near a prison in Yakutsk, Russia to protest the jailing of film director Oleg Sentsov. He was arrested in Crimea – which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014 – and convicted by a Russian military court of conspiracy to commit terror attacks. He was sentenced to 20 years in prison. In September 2017, the group performed their "feminist punk manifesto" in Germany at Frankfurt's Künstlerhaus Mousonturm. Titled "Riot Days," the concert is based on band member Maria Alyokhina's eponymous book that describes her co-founding of Pussy Riot in 2011 with Nadya Tolokonnikova and Yekaterina Samutsevich. In October 2017, the group stormed Trump Tower in New York City to voice opposition to Putin and Trump and the incarceration of political prisoners. Wearing their famous balaclavas, they held up a banner once again urging the release of Ukrainian film director Oleg Sentsov. Police closed the 58-story skyscraper for a half hour. Dressed as police officers, members of the collective invaded the pitch during the World Cup final in Russia, interrupting the game. According to the group, the goals of the protest were for the Russian authorities to free all political prisoners, stop illegal arrests at public rallies and allow political competition in the country. The members were sentenced to 15 days of jail time. Author: Stuart Braun