According to a recent survey, more than two-thirds of Germans are afraid of US President Donald Trump's policies. It would be interesting to know whether Kim Jong Un shares this view. In any case, the North Korean leader does not appear to have sufficient confidence in America's president to have already begun with the process of nuclear disarmament. Overall, the situation on the peninsula is more relaxed than it was a few months ago. But, of course, nothing has substantively changed. Peter Sturm is an editor at the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung Caught in the middle South Korea is doing all it can to transform the improvement in relations between Seoul, Pyongyang and Washington into practical policies. South Korean President Moon Jae-in has said he runs the risk of being crushed between the political top dogs on both sides. Kim Jong Un wants to entice South Korea away from America. Washington, on the other hand, has more than just security interests in mind when it comes to the Korean peninsula. On the contrary: Trump seems to sense freeloaders everywhere — even among allies like South Korea — who want to exploit America for their own advantage. It can't be said, then, that there's a unified policy toward North Korea. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33QJS Peace prospects remain dim The same old problem remains. North Korea has been talking about "denuclearization," but it doesn't take much imagination to realize that Kim Jong Un defines this concept very differently from Trump and most of the rest of the world. Kim believes he needs nuclear weapons to deter America from launching a military attack on his country. No peace treaty will free him from this obsession. Nuclear weapons have also increased North Korea's prestige in the world. After the nuclear tests of recent years, the regime is no longer seen as (only) an oddity with criminal modes of governance. On Sunday, in a largely isolated international setting, Kim Jong Un will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of North Korea. But it's questionable whether this status quo can be sustained for long. Whether the country in its present form is still around to mark its 80th anniversary is up to Kim's regime. Nuclear weapons are an important bargaining chip that should be used wisely in negotiations. What price is the world prepared to pay for disarmament? For the time being, the prospects of real peace for Korea remain dim. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump shake hands as they meet for the first time. Unlike in past meetings with some world leaders, Trump did not try to pull Kim's hand towards him or hold on to the North Korean leader's hand too long. Trump and Kim appeared at ease with one another during the summit. Just a few months prior, Trump and Kim engaged in a war of words, trading insults like "little rocket man" and "mentally deranged." Following their meeting, Trump said he formed a "special bond" with Kim and that he'd like to invite him to the White House. Kim lays a hand on Trump's back as they leave after signing a joint statement pledging peace negotiations and denuclearization. Some critics worried that the US agreed to give up too many things in negotiations with Kim. At a press conference, Trump said he wanted to stop US military exercises with South Korea and eventually withdraw US troops — something Pyongyang has been demanding for years. Trump displays the joint agreement he signed with Kim. In the four-point document, Kim agreed to the "complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." In exchange, Trump agreed to provide "security guarantees" to Pyongyang. The two leaders also agreed to build a "robust peace regime" and to return the remains of prisoners of the 1950-1953 Korean War. South Koreans watch the summit on a screen located at a train station in Seoul. Ahead of the event, critics expressed concern that the meeting between the two leaders would be purely symbolic and not bring concrete progress to easing tensions. Indeed, the agreement did not specify what exact measures would be taken. A bartender in Singapore crafted a special drink for the summit, dubbed "The Bromance." The meeting was held on Singapore's Sentosa island, a resort area with luxury hotels and a theme park. The island's security was massively increased ahead of the summit, while local businesses marked the occasion with special Trump-Kim branded water and drinks. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with dpa, AFP)