Iran summoned Sunday Danish and Dutch ambassadors and the British charge d'affaires over Saturday's attack on a military parade in Ahvaz. The al-Ahvazieh militant group, a hardline Sunni outfit, claimed responsibility for the attack that killed at least 25 people and wounded  more than 60 others. The Iranian government accused Denmark, the Netherlands and Britain of harboring members of the militant group. Iran's foreign ministry said the fact that the European Union did not blacklist al-Ahvazieh was unacceptable. Early reports called the attackers "Takfiri gunmen," a description that has previously been used for members of the "Islamic State" (IS) group. A statement on the Amaq news agency, which is used by IS as a propaganda mouthpiece, claimed their group was behind the attack, though this has not been verified. Saturday's attack was carried out by two gunmen on a motorcycle, according to Iran's semi-official Fars news agency. Rising regional tensions The attack exposed geopolitical fault lines in the region, with Iran and Saudi Arabia vying for a greater influence in the Middle East. Read more: Iran and Saudi Arabia need 'fresh security architecture' Tehran accuses Washington of backing Riyadh in the latter's bid for regional supremacy. Ties between Iran and the US have deteriorated after President Donald Trump restored sanctions on Tehran over its nuclear program. Read more: Iran: Trump administration a 'real threat' to Middle East Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei said Sunday that the Ahvaz attack was "a conspiracy of US-sponsored regimes in the region," which seek to destabilize Iran. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif made similar claims on Saturday, accusing regional powers and their "US masters" of being involved in the military parade assault. "Iran will respond swiftly and decisively in defense of Iranian lives," Zarif wrote on Twitter. A Revolutionary Guards spokesman alleged the attackers were separatists backed by Saudi Arabia, Iran's regional archrival. Ahvaz is the capital of Khuzestan province, an oil-rich region where Arab separatists have been known to attack oil pipelines in the past. The province has a large ethnic Arab community, many of them Sunni, the Muslim denomination to which IS adheres and which is a minority in Shiite Iran. Iran also suffered major attacks by IS extremists on June 7, 2017, when militants assaulted the parliament and the shrine of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in the capital, Tehran. At least 18 people were killed and more than 50 wounded in the attacks. shs/jlw (AP, dpa)