German car giant BMW announced Tuesday that it was bringing forward next year's annual maintenance shutdown of its Mini factory in Oxford to April 1, the first working day after the UK is scheduled to leave the European Union. Carmakers generally halt production during the summer to allow for retooling and repair work in their factories, while most staff take vacation and sales are their low ebb for the year. However, BMW said that the 2019 shutdown would be moved to coincide with Brexit as insurance against any supply chain issues should the UK crash out of the EU without a deal. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35386 "As a responsible organization, we have scheduled next year's annual maintenance period at Mini Plant Oxford to start on 1 April, when the UK exits the EU," the carmaker said in a brief statement released to the media. The move, BMW added, sought "to minimize the risk of any possible short-term parts-supply disruption in the event of a no-deal Brexit." Britain's largely foreign-owned car industry, which employs over 850,000 people, has repeatedly warned against the threat of a no-deal Brexit, arguing it would hurt investment, ramp up production costs, and endanger supply chains within the EU. Britain is only country in which the German automaker has production sites for all three of its car brands — BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce. Some 220,000 vehicles were manufactured at its Oxford plant last year, accounting for 13 percent of Britain's total car production. Read more: Jaguar Land Rover to recruit 5,000 more tech staff amid Brexit worries BMW also sought to ensure that it remained committed to its UK operations regardless of the Brexit outcome, saying it considered a "worst-case scenario" hard-Brexit unlikely but insisted "we have to plan for it." BMW's announcement comes just a day after the UK's biggest carmaker, Jaguar Land Rover, said it was going down to a three-day working week at its Castle Bromwich factory from October until the beginning of December amid Brexit uncertainty. A manufacturer of luxury sports cars since 1913, Aston Martin became a fully-fledged icon with James Bond’s 1964 film "Goldfinger." Bond’s car, the DB5, is often seen as one of the most beautiful in the world and Astons have appeared in six other Bond films. It plans to float on the London Stock Exchange this year. Bankrupt seven times, the company is expected to be valued at around €4.3 billion. Jaguar is the luxury vehicle brand of Jaguar Land Rover, a multinational car manufacturer headquartered in Coventry and owned by Indian company Tata Motors since 2008. It was founded as the Swallow Sidecar Company in 1922 and has manufactured cars for the British Prime Minister and also holds royal warrants from Queen Elizabeth II. Ford sold both Jaguar and Land Rover to Tata Motors. The Triumph TR6 is a sports car built between 1968 and 1976 with the US market in mind. Some 86,249 of the 94,619 cars built were exported to the US. The TR6 is often regarded with affection by its devotees as the last of the "hairy chested" British two-seat sports convertibles. A survey in 1987 showed that only Coca-Cola was a more widely known brand than Rolls-Royce, a luxury car established in 1904. WWI saw the company branch into aero engines, where it still flourishes. Rolls-Royce faced troubled times after WWII and was nationalized until 1987 when the government sold it to the public. The new Rolls-Royce Phantom starts at about €400,000 ($400,000). The Morris Minor started production in 1948. Over 1.6 million were made between 1948 and 1972 in three series and it became the first British car to sell over one million units. Some consider it a classic example of automotive design and typifying "Englishness." Lotus Cars makes sports cars, including the Esprit, Elan, Europa, Elise, Exige and Evora. Based at the former site of RAF Hethel, a WWII airfield, Lotus builds light weight race and production automobiles. In 2017, Geely took a 51-percent controlling stake in Lotus and the remainder belongs to Etika Automotive. Ex-French Prime Minister Francois Fillon with a 1956 Lotus Elan above. The Land Rover Range Rover (known simply as a Range Rover) is a luxury sport utility vehicle made by Land Rover. The Range Rover was launched in 1970 by British Leyland and the model is now in its fourth generation. Above is the Range Rover Long Wheel Base Autobiographic Black trim model, of which only 25 Vallorie white editions exist in the US and go for $199,000 (€170,000). The Morgan Motor Company is a family-owned car manufacturer founded in 1910 and based in Malvern Link in Worcestershire. Employing 177 people, Morgan produces 1,300 cars per year, all by hand, with wood used in their construction for over a century. The waiting list to buy a Morgan is about six months and has been as long as ten years. Land Rover is a car brand that specializes in four-wheel-drive vehicles, owned by British multinational car manufacturer Jaguar Land Rover, which has been owned by India's Tata Motors since 2008. The Land Rover is another British icon and was granted a Royal Warrant by King George VI in 1951. 'Hackney' is derived from the village name Hackney, a part of London. The word was once thought to be an anglicized derivative of French haquenée — a horse of medium size. The first documented hackney coach operated in London in 1621. The New York City colloquial terms "hack" (taxi or taxi-driver), hackstand (taxi stand), and hack license (taxi license) are probably derived from hackney carriage. The MGB is a two-door sports car manufactured and marketed by the British Motor Corporation (BMC), later British Leyland, first made in 1962. In 1999 the Mini was voted the second most influential car of the 20th century, behind the Ford Model T and ahead of the Citroën DS and Volkswagen Beetle. The original is considered an icon of 1960s British popular culture and influenced a generation of car makers. BMW bought the Rover Group (formerly British Leyland) in 1994 and sold a majority of it in 2000. The Austin Motor Company Limited was a manufacturer of motor vehicles founded in 1905. In 1952 it was merged with Morris Motors Limited in the new holding company British Motor Corporation (BMC) Limited and the Austin name was used until 1987. The trademark is currently owned by SAIC after being transferred from bankrupt subsidiary Nanjing Automotive which acquired it with MG Rover Group in 2005. Bentley Motors Limited is a manufacturer and marketer of luxury cars and SUVs. It has been a subsidiary of Volkswagen since 1998. Headquartered in Crewe, the company was founded in 1919 in London and won the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 1924, 1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, and 2003. Some are assembled at Volkswagen's Dresden factory. Still a signifier of sophistication. Author: Jo Harper Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/msh (Reuters, AFP, AP)