An EU delegation in Libya on Saturday urged warring militias fighting in the capital, Tripoli, to end the latest escalation of violence, saying it "has caused civilian fatalities." "The solution to the Libyan crisis remains political, not military," the EU delegation said in a statement. "All those responsible for violating the ceasefire or fueling violence will face consequences." Clashes since late August have left more than 100 people dead, prompting an outcry from Libya's UN-backed government, formerly known as the Government of National Accord (GNA). 'Bloody events' Earlier this month, the UN said several armed militias fighting in the capital had agreed to a ceasefire with the government. But observers have described the ceasefire as fragile due to the UN-backed government's lack of influence on the ground. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expressed alarm at "the increasing number of violations of the ceasefire agreement signed by armed groups," according to his spokesman. The GNA late Friday urged the UN mission in Libya to "present the Security Council with the reality of the bloody events in Libya so that it can … protect the lives and property of civilians." It added that the situation requires "concrete and effective" action. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2mVWH Chaos in Libya Armed militias have fought for influence and control across Libya since 2011, when an uprising evolved into a civil war that witnessed NATO involvement. Former Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi was overthrown and subsequently killed by rebels. Two rival governments comprising the UN-backed GNA in Tripoli and an Islamist-oriented one in Tobruk — both with backing from several armed militias — have continued to vie for power. Instability in the North African country has made it a human trafficking hub and a central departing point for migrants attempting the dangerous voyage across the Mediterranean to Europe. For more than 40 years, Moammar Gadhafi was the eccentric strongman in power in Libya. He was known for his odd behavior - and for his regime's ties to international terror groups. Libya was one of the countries swept up by the Arab Spring, and protests eventually turned into a civil war. Gadhafi fled but was eventually captured and killed In October, 2011. After Gadhafi fell, the eyes of the world were on Libya in the hope that the country would have a smooth transition to democracy. By July 2012, democratic parliamentary elections had taken place, but it proved to be a challenge for the country's politicians to form a coalition and compromise on issues that would bring further stability. Another problem facing Libya in the post-Gadhafi era was the rise of violent militias. While various armed groups did band together to topple the dictator, they did not have a common cause to rally around after his death. Instead, they fought each other. Terrorist groups were also on the rise in Libya, and staged a deadly attack on the US embassy in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. Political divisions became deeper in the years following Gadhafi's ouster. The UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) is the internationally-recognized authority in Libya, but several factions on the ground are claiming a hold on power. Jihadist groups including the so-called 'Islamic State' have gained a significant foothold in the country, making any progress precarious. At present, the Tripoli-based GNA controls parts of western and central Libya while Haftar's Libyan National Army holds much of the northeast. However, areas of power are constantly shifting due to ongoing "Islamic State" violence and the country's many different smaller factions. In recent weeks, Libya has reached out to NATO for assistance in strengthening the country's security institutions in an effort to end the power struggle between competing governments and militias. Leaders of two of the biggest groups - the GNA and the self-proclaimed Libyan National Army LNA - called for an end to the political and economic crises in the country. Author: Matt Zuvela ls/jm (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.