Merkel made the first ever official visit by a German chancellor to Macedonia on Saturday, describing its 30 September renaming referendum as a potential stabilization move of "great interest" to Germany and the EU. Central to the referendum is a renaming deal reached between Athens and Skopje in June - aimed at placating the Greek north's sole claim to the name Macedonia and thereby unraveling long-standing Greece's vetoes against Skopje's inclusion within NATO and the EU. "Are you for EU and NATO membership by accepting the agreement between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Greece?" is the referendum question passed by Macedonia's parliament in July - despite a boycott by opposition nationalists. Currently, Skopje is recognized as the "Republic of Macedonia" by more than 120 countries, including the US and Russia. Opposing the Athens-Skopje deal are nationalists in Macedonia, as well as Greece for varying reasons. Talks with opposition Merkel, who was welcomed to Skopje with military honors by Prime Minister Zoran Zaev, was also due to hold talks with opposition leader Hristijan Mickovski of the conservative party VMRO, which lost office last year to Zaev's Social Democrats. Military honors for Merkel in Skopje The VMRO, like Merkel's Christian Democratic party (CDU),  is part of the European People's Party and EU parliamentary level. Top level visitors Merkel's talks in Skopje follow visits to by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg on Thursday and Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz on Friday, who both appealed to Macedonians to embrace the new name. Stoltenberg said Macedonians had a "once in a lifetime opportunity" to join NATO as its 30th member, and the EU, "but for this you have to agree to the name agreement." Macedonia's nationalist President Gjorge Ivanov – after meeting Stoltenberg – said proffering the "EU and NATO cannot be an alibi for a bad deal." Kurz, visiting Skopje on Friday, urged Macedonians to vote for the name change, saying the EU would not be whole until Western Balkan countries, Serbia and Macedonia included, joined it. At the peak of Europe's 2015-16 migrant crisis, Kurz - then Austria's foreign minister - praised Macedonia's efforts to block refugee and migrant arrivals. For decades Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) had a contentious relationship over the name. When Yugoslavia broke up Macedonia declared its independence and took the name Republic of Macedonia, Greece objected as its northern region is also called Macedonia. In 2018, the two countries settled the dispute and Macedonia is now known as The Republic of Nothern Macedonia. The Irish have long had a contentious relationship with the United Kingdom. While Ireland was for centuries part of the UK, the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 gave Ireland complete independence in its home affairs but an opt-out clause allowed Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom. The islands in the southern Atlantic have had French, British, Spanish and Argentinian settlements. The British refer to the archipelago as the Falkland Islands and reasserted its rule over them in 1833. Argentina maintains that the islands are called the Islas Malvinas and are a part of its territory. In 1982, Argentina invaded the islands until a British force retook the territories. The small group of islands controlled by Japan in the East China Sea has long been a sore point between Japan and China. China claims it discovered what it calls the Diaoyu islands in the 14th century. After World War II, the US administered the island but returned control to Japan in 1972. With the discovery of oil reserves in 1968, ownership is now once again an issue. Author: Andy Valvur US visitors as well Due to visit Macedonia next week is Senator Ron Johnson, the chairman of the US Committee of Homeland Security. On Thursday, the US embassy in Skopje published a letter in which US President Donald Trump said the deal "smoothed the way" for membership in NATO and the EU. On Friday, US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross visited Thessaloniki, Greece's second-largest city, signaling Washington's shifting interest in the region given its tense relations with NATO-member Turkey. General Joseph Dunford, who chairs the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, visited Athens. Accession to EU? The European Union, for its part, has intimated that any accession negotiations - not likely before June 2019 – would hinge on the name-change referendum and results on reforms, particularly in fighting corruption. Still skeptical are France and the Netherlands. Last month, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption group found that Macedonia had implemented only six of its 19 recommendations. ipj/rc (AP, dpa, AFP, Reuters)