British Prime Minister Theresa May held a 3-hour Cabinet meeting on Thursday before her government issued a further collection of technical notices about the effects of leaving the EU next March without a deal in place. With only months to go, there was more advice for UK individuals and businesses to prepare for major changes in their dealings with Europe as outsiders. What the UK government advised More such advice is expected in the coming weeks. May became prime minister after David Cameron resigned from the post in the wake of the Brexit referendum vote in June 2016. Despite her position, she has struggled to define what kind of Brexit her government wants. Hardliners within her Conservative party want her to push for a clean break. Others want Britain to stay close to the bloc. The EU itself has rejected many of May's Brexit demands. The leader of the British Labour Party has no formal role in the Brexit talks, but he is influential as the head of the main opposition party. Labour has tried to pressure the Conservative government, which has a thin majority in Parliament, to seek a "softer" Brexit. But Corbyn's own advocacy has been lukewarm. The long-time leftist voted for the UK to leave the European Community (EC) in 1975. Boris Johnson's turbulent two years as UK foreign secretary came to an abrupt end with his resignation on July 9. The conservative had been a key face for the Leave campaign during the 2016 referendum campaign. Johnson disapproves of the "soft Brexit" sought by PM May, arguing that a complete break from the EU might be preferable. He became the second Cabinet member within 24 hours to quit... David Davis headed Britain's Department for Exiting the EU and was the country's chief negotiator in the talks before he quit on July 8, less than 24 hours before Downing Street announced Boris Johnson's departure. Davis had long opposed Britain's EU membership and was picked for the role for this reason. Davis was involved in several negotiating rounds with his EU counterpart, Michel Barnier. Theresa May appointed euroskeptic Dominic Raab the morning after Brexit Secretary David Davis resigned. Raab, a staunchly pro-Brexit lawmaker, was formerly Davis' chief of staff. He previously worked for a Palestinian negotiator in the Oslo peace process and as an international lawyer in Brussels advising on European Union and World Trade Organization law. Jeremy Hunt was Britain's Health Secretary until he replaced Boris Johnson as foreign secretary in early July 2018. The 51-year-old supported Britain remaining in the European Union during the 2016 referendum, but said in late 2017 that he had changed his mind in response to the "the arrogance of the EU Commission" during Brexit talks. He has vowed to help get Britain a "great Brexit deal." Nigel Farage was the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) until July 2016. Under his stewardship, the party helped pressure former Prime Minister David Cameron into calling the EU referendum. He was also a prominent activist in the Leave campaign in the lead-up to the vote. Farage still has some influence over Brexit talks due to his popularity with pro-Leave voters. EU Commission President Juncker (left) and EU Council President Tusk (right) share two of the bloc's highest posts. Juncker heads the EU's executive. Tusk represents the governments of the 27 EU countries — the "EU 27." Both help formulate the EU's position in Brexit negotiations. What Tusk says is particularly noteworthy: His EU 27 masters — not the EU commission — must agree to any Brexit deal. The former French foreign minister and European commissioner has become a household name across the EU since his appointment as the bloc's chief Brexit negotiator in October 2016. Despite his prominence, Barnier has limited room to maneuver. He is tasked with following the EU 27's strict guidelines and must regularly report back to them during the negotiations. The Irish PM has been one of the most important EU 27 leaders in Brexit talks. Britain has said it will leave the EU's customs union and single market. That could force the Republic of Ireland, an EU member, to put up customs checks along the border with Northern Ireland, a British province. But Varadkar's government has repeatedly said the return of a "hard" border is unacceptable. The leaders of the EU 27 governments have primarily set the EU's negotiating position. They have agreed to the negotiating guidelines for chief negotiator Barnier and have helped craft the common EU position for Tusk and Juncker to stick to. The individual EU 27 governments can also influence the shape of any Brexit outcome because they must unanimously agree to a final deal. Author: Alexander Pearson Stark warning Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab said a no-deal Brexit with Brussels was unlkely and a clear model for the UK-EU relationship was the aim: "I don't think we can have fudges," he said during a television interview. However, Raab admitted a no-deal Brexit will lead to "significant risks and short-term disruption" for the UK. He also warned the UK could withhold billions of euros in a final payment if there was no deal. The UK would pay "significantly, substantially" less than the 39 billion pounds (€43.7 billion or $51 billion) he said. Insecure status: There have been reports of stockpiling of food and medicine by various enterprises and organizations and with only six months to go until Britain leaves the bloc there are many unanswered questions — and not just for those in Britain. Brits abroad: The future of British people living in the EU is still extremely unclear. If there is no deal, the status of the UK would be the same as that offered to any country outside the EU — a so-called third country. This would offer UK citizens the possibility of staying for two periods of 90 days each year in an EU-Schengen state, and applying for visas A young boy waits to greet Prince William in Dusseldorf in 2016 . Economic damage Moody's Investor Service said on Thursday that the probability of a "no-deal" had risen and would damage the economy, especially the automotive, aerospace, airline and chemical sectors. The head of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, was reported to have told the Cabinet that house prices would fall 35 percent in three years in the event of a no-deal. External affairs manager for Europe's biggest port Rotterdam, Mark Dijk warned when the UK leaves the EU and becomes a third country, customs clearance will be required for all EU-UK trade. Additional inspections for food, plants and live animals and other paperwork would also have to be carried out. Dijk warned not enough was being done on either side of the Channel to prepare for the change. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34mXr jm/rt (Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 