Egyptian state television has reported that senior officials in the banned Muslim Brotherhood group have been sentenced to death in a case related to the sit-in protest staged in mid-2013 by loyalists to ousted President Mohammed Morsi.  In a trial involving 739 defendants, the Cairo Criminal Court has sentenced senior Muslim Brotherhood leaders Essam al-Erian and Mohamed Beltagi, along with prominent Islamist preacher Safwat Higazi, to death by hanging, judicial sources told the Reuters news agency. Read more: Rabaa riots 'darkest day in Egyptian modern history' Spiritual leader Mohammed Badie has been sentenced to life in prison, along with 46 others. Charges ranged from murder to damaging property in Cairo's Rabaa al-Adawiya Square, the site of the protests. Thirty-one of the 75 defendants sentenced to death were tried in absentia. According to Egyptian state television, the sentences can still be appealed. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2uy9q Crackdown on dissent, freedoms Prize-winning photojournalist Mahmoud Abu Zaid, known as Shawkan, was handed five-year jail sentence after being arrested in August 2013 while covering the unrest. He is now likely to walk free "within a few days" having already spent five years in detention, his lawyer Karim Abdelrady said Saturday. Rights groups, including Amnesty International, had said the mass trial reflected a crackdown on dissent and freedoms under President Abdel-Fatah el-Sissi, who was re-elected last March after his electoral challengers were sidelined. In 2013, Egypt's military then led by el-Sissi ousted Morsi, Egypt's first freely elected president, amid widespread protest against Morsi's divisive rule. Muslim Brotherhood loyalists responded with protests focused on Rabaa al-Adawiya Square in a show of strength. A month after the army ousted Morsi on August 14, the army moved in and begin dispersing the sprawling protest camp. About 700 people were killed within hours at Rabaa al-Adawiya and Nahda Square, where another sit-in was being held. The government claimed many protesters had been armed, and said 43 police officers were killed. Human Rights Watch (HRW) subsequently called for an international investigation. In the months that followed, hundreds more people were killed in street clashes with police. Amnesty and HRW have said at least 40,000 people were arrested in the first year after Morsi was deposed. Egyptian courts have subsequently sentenced hundreds to death or lengthy jail terms at mass trials that rights groups said have made a mockery of due process. The book opens with Nawal El Saadawi, an Egyptian physician, author and well-known women’s rights advocate. She explains why Middle Eastern women have so far failed to make a breakthrough in their fight: "Women can’t be liberated under the patriarchal, imperialistic and militaristic system that determines our lives now. We are governed by power, not justice; by false democracy, not real freedom." Syrian psychoanalyst Rafah Nached was arrested in Damascus in September 2011 after organizing meetings to help traumatized anti-Assad protesters. She was freed two months later and now lives in exile in Paris. "In the Arab society, change is refused because whoever does not join the mass is considered an atheist or abnormal," she says in Huitfeldt’s book. Shirin Ebadi is an Iranian lawyer who has dedicated her life to fighting for women's, children's, and refugee rights. A target of threats by the government and the police in her country, she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003. "Democracy does not recognize east and west; democracy is people’s will. Therefore, I do not acknowledge the idea of various models of democracy," she says. "Of course, occupation is male, especially military occupation. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is a man-made conflict, and we, as women, have to end it," says Palestinian legislator, activist, and scholar Hanan Ashrawi in the book. Despite making some controversial comments about Jewish refugees, Ashrawi has contributed significantly to the peace process between the two countries. Feminist Amal Basha is from Yemen, which placed last in the UN Gender Equality Index in 2016. Women’s economic, social, and cultural rights are restricted by Sharia law there - but why? "Men are afraid of women because women are the voice of peace. They have no interest in wars since they are not arm dealers willing to milk the country through all sorts of military deals," she says. To end the ongoing civil war in her homeland, both genders will have to change their attitudes, says Libyan Hajer Sharief, a member of the UN advisory committee and Kofi Annan foundation: "If you look into the houses, you will see mothers pushing their young sons to go to the war. Even if they don’t carry weapons themselves, they are definitely contributing to the circle of violence in Libya." Jordanian Rana Husseini is a feminist, human rights defender, and an investigative journalist, whose reporting sheds light on violence against women. "The Jordanian society blames women for everything: for being raped, harassed, giving birth to children of the wrong sex, and even for their husbands’ unfaithful and womanizing behavior. The list is endless," she says on the topic of honor killings. Author: Jan Tomes ipj/cmk (Reuters, dpa, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.