Europeans are healthier and living longer compared to five years ago, according to the European health report published Wednesday. However, the study by the World Health Organization (WHO) warned that smoking and rising obesity could reverse the gains if left unchecked and revealed "significant" discrepancies between countries with the highest and lowest life expectancy. Key findings: Read more: World not doing enough to reduce smoking: WHO Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32ru7 'Uneven progress' Dr Zsuzsanna Jakab, WHO Regional Director for Europe, said the report showed that most European countries had taken "significant steps" towards meeting the key targets approved under the Health 2020 initiative, a European health policy framework. But she warned that the progress faced risks from lifestyle-related factors such as smoking, alcohol and obesity. "Progress is uneven, though, both within and between countries, between sexes, and across generations," Jakab said. "Lifestyle-related risk factors give cause for concern, as they may slow, or even reverse the great gains in life expectancy if left unchecked." Read more: How to prevent cancer What is the European health report? The report, which is published every three years, tracks progress against targets set under the Health 2020 initiative, adopted in 2012. The targets include reducing premature deaths and health inequalities and increasing life expectancy. How did Germany fare? In Germany, alcohol consumption remained very high. People aged 15 and above consumed 11 liters of alcohol per year, above the European average of 8.6 liters, WHO expert Claudia Stein told the dpa news agency. Read more: Study: Child obesity rates in Germany high, but not increasing Vaccination rates have improved significantly in Germany, with around 97 percent for measles. With a life expectancy of over 81 years, Germany was among the top quarter of the list. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Germany has launched a scheme to retrofit its diesel public buses with exhaust-scrubbing systems, and introduce charging points to encourage drivers to switch to e-cars. Still, environmentalists say that's not enough. They want all diesel vehicles — including private cars — retrofitted, or taken off the road. Milan, one of Italy's most polluted cities, has banned cars from its downtown area during certain hours. Other cities in Italy and abroad have experimented with similar schemes, for example permitting only cars with odd or even license plates on the road at given times in order to limit the amount of traffic. The Macedonian capital of Skopje is battling with pollution levels up to 15 higher than permitted by the EU — though it's not yet a member state, so isn't facing fines. Macedonia's smog problem is largely down to burning coal and emissions from aging, inefficient industry and vehicles. To get people to leave their dirty old cars at home, the government has introduced free public transport. One street in London exceeded the EU's annual nitrogen dioxide limit on January 30 — less than a month into 2018. Actually, this is an improvement — it's the first time in a decade the British capital has kept within the annual limit for more than six days. Mayor of London Sadiq Khan has announced he wants to alert the city's schools on days when pollution is particularly bad. Author: Sarah Steffen