A state dinner for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Berlin became awkward late Friday. In his speech, German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier lamented the deterioration of the rule of law and human rights in Turkey, and Erdogan accused Germany of hosting "hundreds, thousands" of terrorists. Steinmeier opened his address at the presidential palace praising a long history of relations between the two countries, including Turkey's role in accepting persecuted Jews and Germans during Nazi rule. Read more: Free-press conflict overshadows Merkel meeting Turkey's Erdogan He later alluded to the present, when thousands of Turkish citizens have sought refuge abroad from an increasingly authoritarian Turkey under Erdogan. "Eighty years ago Germans found protection in Turkey — today a worrying number of people from Turkey are fleeing the growing repression against civil society," Steinmeier said before Erdogan, his wife, Emine, and distinguished guests. "As president of this country, I worry about German nationals being detained for political reasons in Turkey, and I also worry about Turkish journalists, trade unionists, lawyers, intellectuals and politicians still in detention," Steinmeier went on to say. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35Zeh The deteriorating human rights situation in Turkey and the detention of German nationals have been put an added strain on relations between Berlin and Ankara. Steinmeier expressed hope that freedom, rule of law and human rights would return to Turkey more than two years after a failed coup attempt against Erdogan. 'Hundreds, thousands" of terrorists in Germany Later, Erdogan slammed Germany for hosting thousands of "terrorists" from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the Gulen movement, who Ankara blames for the failed 2016 coup attempt. "Thousands of members of PKK, which is recognized as a terror group by the EU, walk freely in Germany," Erdogan said, according to Turkish state media Anatolia News Agency. "The FETO terror organization [Gulen movement], unfortunately, hundreds, thousands of them are walking freely in Germany." Read more: Turkey's Gulen movement on the rise in Germany The Turkish president also criticized Germany for hosting Can Dundar, a prominent Turkish journalist living in Germany who was convicted of espionage for publishing about alleged armed shipments to Syrian rebels. March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. All three have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. July 2018: German footballer Mesut Özil quit the national team following the fallout from his meeting with the Turkish president. Özil said he was being made a scapegoat for Germany's forgettable performance at the FIFA World Cup in Moscow because of his Turkish heritage. Erdogan praised Özil's decision and slammed the "racist" mistreatment of the footballer. August 2018: A Turkish court removed the travel ban on German journalist Mesale Tolu, who was arrested last year on terrorism-related charges. But the trial against Tolu, who has since returned to Germany, is set to continue. Her husband, Suat Corlu, who is facing similar charges, has been ordered to remain in Turkey. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier "When journalists are involved in acts of terrorism and have been condemned by a Turkish court, how can anyone still defend them?" he asked. "And here he gets a nice role." Earlier Friday, during a heated press conference with Chancellor Angela Merkel and Erdogan, a Turkish journalist protesting press freedom in Turkey was escorted out of the room. Erdogan also used the press conference to call for Germany to extradite Dundar, the former editor-in-chief of the main opposition Cumhuriyet newspaper. Turkey is demanding the extradition of dozens of alleged followers of the PKK and Gulen movement. Germany considers the PKK a terrorist organization but has not applied the same label to the Gulen movement. Erdogan's three-day state visit has drawn thousands of protesters into the streets. On Saturday, the Turkish president will open a new mosque in the western city of Cologne. Both the German and Turkish sides are trying to heal relations that have nosedived over the past two years. In addition to lingering differences over human rights in Turkey, Erdogan's visit is focused areas of mutual interest such as economic ties, the war in Syria and refugees. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. cw/xx (dpa)