Victor David Segura, known as David, was described by the Colombian president and security forces as "the most dangerous" dissident fighter who had refused to lay down his arms when others came to a peace deal in 2016. President Ivan Duque described Segura as "the dissidents' main ringleader." The armed forces said that Segura was killed near the port city of Tumaco in the southwest of Colombia. The area is a hub of coca plantations and fighting among armed groups aiming to control drug trafficking routes on the Pacific Ocean. His sister, Carmen, was reported killed in the same shoot-out with navy and police officers. Read more: History will not be forgotten in Colombia The two had led a group of about 120 former Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) militants, according to security forces. The fighters, accused of murders, kidnappings, drug trafficking, illegal mining and other crimes, remained in the jungle of southern Colombia rather than relinquish their arms and partake in reintegration programs agreed to in a 2016 peace deal following more than 50 years of war. The port city of Tumaco by the Pacific Ocean Speaking shortly after the incident on Saturday, Duque said: "Early this morning the most dangerous kingpin in the Pacific, known by the alias David, was neutralized. He was considered the head of the so-called United Guerrillas of the Pacific." A reward of around $50,000 (€43,200) had been offered for information leading to David Segura's capture. Segura had been at odds with a rival group headed by well-known dissident Walther Arizala, who is accused of being behind the murders of Ecuadorean journalists in March. Both Segura and Arizala were believed to have links to the Jalisco New Generation and Sinaloa drug cartels in Mexico, according to the Peace and Reconciliation Foundation, a political think tank. The 2016 signing of the peace accord between the Colombian government and FARC rebels was a major, but not final, step towards ending the decades-long conflict. The deal remains a controversial topic in the country and took center stage during the presidential election. The conflict's origins date to the 1920s and a struggle over land ownership, which claimed thousands of lives. The 1948 murder of Jorge Eliecer Gaitan (photo), a liberal politician, threw the country into deep crisis. A result was the formation of a number of resistance groups; the Colombian army launched a campaign against "communist farmers." The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the National Liberation Army (ELN) were founded in 1964. The former wanted to break up the monopoly of land ownership, whereas the ELN formed out of a radical student movement and ideas of liberation theologians such as Camilo Torres (photo). The Colombian government fought both groups with the support the United States. The conflict deepened in the 1980s with the introduction of right-wing paramilitary groups in the service of the landowners against FARC. Both sides were closely linked to drug cartels. Four presidential candidates and countless left-wing politicians were murdered by paramilitaries between 1986 and 1990. In February 2002, the government cut off peace negotiations with FARC after guerrillas hijacked a domestic flight. Days later, the rebels struck again, kidnapping presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt. Alvaro Uribe went on to win the election that May and escalated military operations against FARC, ruling out further negotiations. He was re-elected in 2007. Betancourt was released in 2008. Juan Manuel Santos was elected president in 2010. Two years later, a law concerning compensation for victims of violence and the return of land came into effect. Peace talks between the government (photo) and FARC officially began that November. At midnight on August 29, 2016, the permanent ceasefire came into force. "A new chapter in Colombia's history begins on August 29," Santos wrote on Twitter. "We have silenced the weapons. The war with FARC is over!" On September 26, 2016, President Santos and FARC leader Rodrigo Londono, a.k.a. Timochenko, signed the peace treaty, ending the 52-year-old conflict. The signing took place in Cartagena and was attended by 2,500 people. Distrust in FARC manifested itself in a pre-referendum campaign against the peace treaty, led by the conservative ex-president Alvaro Uribe. To the surprise of many observers, a thin majority of Colombians voted to reject the deal on October 2, 2016. The international community threw its support behind the treaty's supporters. Just five days after it was rejected in a referendum, Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The ceremony took place in Oslo in December 2016. Colombia's parliament ratified the peace treaty on November 30, 2016, following a list of changes to the deal's original language. FARC rebels gave up their weapons in three phases. On June 27, 2017, at the end of the UN-controlled disarmament process, Santos wrote: "For me and all Colombians, today is a special day. It's a day when weapons were exchanged for words." The now disarmed, former rebel group chose to renew itself as a political party and disavow violence during a convention on August 27, 2017. The guerrilla's founder, Rodrigo Londono (photo), was elected the new party's head. He was unable to run for president, however, due to his poor health. For the first time since the end of the armed conflict, FARC put up its members as candidates in the parliamentary election, which took place on March 11, 2018. The party received just 50,000 votes, but secured five seats in the senate and lower house of parliament, respectively, as guaranteed by the peace treaty. The conservative party of former President Uribe won the election. Author: Emilia Rojas Sasse Renewing peace talks? President Duque had set a deadline of Friday to decide whether or not to resume peace talks with the 1,500 fighters of the Marxist National Liberation Army (ELN) rebel group who had not entered peace talks with the FARC. He said on Saturday that he would not talk with the group until it released 17 hostages, some of them police and army personnel. Later on Saturday, the army reported another operation had led to the deaths of three FARC militants. Two others had been captured and two young people were also detained. The group had been accused of controlling extortion payments and the collection of money from narco-traffickers. Colombia is the world's largest producer of cocaine. The US said last year that the Tumaco jungle area near the border with Ecuador had 209,000 hectares of coca leaf plantations, a record. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31ies jm/jlw (EFE, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.