The case of the dearly departed Minki, a 12-year-old shorthair cat from the German city of Mönchengladbach, was finally put to rest on Friday. A district judge ruled in favor of a graveyard keeper who had been locked in a strange conflict with Minki's owner. After holding a formal funeral for Minki last year, the owner claimed that cemetery owner Monika Ludwig had reduced the ultimate size of the grave. According to the owner's lawyer Torsten F. Barthel, the boundary stones "ran over the cat's heart," with only half the cat lying inside the grave and "its extremities outside." It was a situation the owner found "undeserving." The site owner insisted that she routinely buries pets, and has never had a complaint before. She also argued that Minki's owner and she had not agreed on a grave larger than normal for an animal of that size. Read more: German dog 'Chico' put down after mauling owner to death Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33hVN Lawyer: My client is not a nutcase Judge Miriam Pels agreed, saying that "there is no proof" any other deal existed. The judge also declined a request to have the body exhumed in order to prove that the animal was not fully buried, after asking Minki's owner to think realistically about the state the body would be in. Barthel wanted to make it clear that his client "wasn't a nutcase…he is a successful businessman, he has a wife and child." However, according to a court spokesman, the case of Minki could be far from over. By not appearing himself in court, the owner now has the right to appeal without explanation. "That means the whole story could start over again from the beginning." Garfield's comic strip dates back to the late 1970s. A bored and cynical creature, he shares the house with Odie, an intellectually disadvantaged dog, and Jon, a human being with a lonely streak. It's the perfect situation: Should Garfield disapprove of something, he can take it out on Jon and Odie. In 2004 the lasagna addict made the silver screen; two films followed. He performs the most difficult tasks and nabs the vilest culprits. Of noble Spanish lineage, he's swift, and his claws are as sharp as glass cutters. He's the Puss In Boots, unstoppable — unless he has to stop to spit out a fur ball. After brilliant performances in the Shrek films, he was even given his own flick to star in. In 1970, a dignified single mother named Duchesse and her three children padded across the silver screen in the Disney film "Aristocats": They encounter street cat Thomas O'Malley and a wild bunch of jazz-crazed cats. The film also includes a villain, lots of jazz music, moonlight and love in 1920s Paris. A cult cat in the 1970s was a sex-crazed feline anarchist. Robert Crumb created Fritz the Cat, who drinks, smokes pot, likes sex parties and ultimately sets off a bomb. The comic strip was filmed in 1971. It was the first animated movie one had to be 18 to attend. What would the Net be without cat content? Arguably the web's most famous feline is Grumpy Cat, whose facial expression is actually due to a genetic defect. But it works to her advantage. Grumpy went viral, and Grumpy merchandise made her owners wealthy. Showered with prizes, she was Meme of the Year 2013. Choupette is Karl Lagerfeld's muse. Wherever he may be, she's not far behind: in a custom-designed traveling bag, with two ladies-in-waiting, a chef and a body guard. Choupette models, she twitters and lives a thoroughly normal life of luxury. Indisputably an "It" Cat. Sylvester the tomcat has only one goal in life: to catch and devour Tweety, the little yellow canary. But the feathered friend is somehow always just a little faster. Particularly unnerving is the fact that Tweety is a step ahead mentally too, and that regularly drives Sylvester to distraction. Both belong to the Looney Tunes cast of animated characters. Comedy duo Tom and Jerry swept the movie screens from 1940 until 1967, later becoming TV stars. The storyline is the simplest imaginable: Tom wants to catch Jerry; Jerry gets away. The wild chases have a low violence threshold with detonations being a frequent occurrence. Seven Tom and Jerry movies won Oscars, and six more were nominated. In "Pettson and Findus," a children's book series by Swedish author Sven Nordqvist, a lively kitten named Findus adds a little action to his elderly owner's life. Findus has a mischievous streak, but nobody can stay mad at him long. He has the ability to converse with other animals, but with only one human: "his old man" Pettson. The Nordic cat epic was also adapted into animated versions. The most polarizing fashion statement, unadulterated kitsch, a world-famous brand name and a hit in girl's rooms: Hello Kitty. The Hello Kitty label can be found on pretty much all types of objects: from children's cassette recorders to guitars, bags, furniture and skulls. The targeted market sector (young, female) is crazy about her. Others generally can't fathom why. Evil rogue Blofeld is James Bond's worst nemesis. Turning up in various 007 adventures, the bald villain usually sits at some opulent, clandestine location where other evildoers are busy at work constructing evildoing machines. Blofeld always has a white Persian on his lap that he strokes tenderly — which only makes him doubly mysterious. Author: Silke Wünsch (rf) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.