Singapore is home to almost 250,000 foreign domestic workers, many of whom come from Indonesia to the wealthy city-state to earn higher salaries. Singapore's tight regulations mean that working conditions are considered better than in Malaysia or the Middle East. However, dozens of listings on the Singaporean online marketplace Carousell caused controversy last week over accusations that maids were being marketed and sold like products by an employment agency. Carousell suspended the agency's account, which according to local media had posted 50 listings advertising foreign domestic workers "for sale." On Wednesday last week, Singapore's labor ministry, the Ministry of Manpower (MOM), suspended the maid employment agency's license and are conducting an investigation into "inappropriate marketing" of maids on online marketplaces. Anis Hidayah, co-founder and director at the NGO Migrant Care in Jakarta, spoke with DW about human trafficking in sending Indonesian domestic workers to Singapore. Indonesian domestic workers who say they fled abusive employers wait at a shelter DW: How is online advertising of migrant workers considered to be human trafficking? Anis Hidayah: Advertising in Singapore is a part of human trafficking networks because they offer workers as commodities. The problem is that this is not solely related to human trafficking syndicates in Singapore, but also in Indonesia. The question is; who actually takes part in Indonesian syndicates? Then, who acts as their partners? Human trafficking networks connect from one country to another on a bilateral, regional and even international level. If Singapore's government investigates the matter, it must be done thoroughly to uncover the main network. The Indonesian government must also conduct a follow-up investigation to unveil their networks operating domestically. This is not the first case where Indonesian migrant workers have been sold like commodities, correct? No, it is not. In 2006, Indonesian migrant workers were not offered online, but rather they were lined-up for sale at shopping centers in Singapore. There were even apartment listings promising to provide two free maids from Indonesia. This has been happening for a while. Read more: Hong Kong's domestic workers 'treated worse than the dogs' Hong Kong woman convicted for beating Indonesian maid How does this phenomenon affect worker safety? If homeowners or industries recruit their workers from these kinds of online platforms, they are more likely to exploit workers because they think they've already bought them in the first place. If these cases are not new, why do they persist? The Indonesian government has never taken serious action against these advertisements. I remember there was one advertisement in Malaysia in 2012, offering migrant workers "on sale" for 40 percent off. The government at the time didn't respond diplomatically, instead they considered it like a sticker ad for a toilet pump that didn't need to be seriously dealt with. Srikhoon Jiangkratok (on the right) was a first-generation migrant worker who came to Singapore in the early 1990s. Some of the more than 900 photos he took during his stint in the city-state are part of a web exhibition called "Work Men on the Move." The complete gallery including commentary can be found online at storyform.co/@speth-2/-734dab35c6bb. After working on construction sites in Bangkok for eight years, his company sent Jiangkratok to Singapore in 1994 as a foreman to build the famous Ritz Carlton Hotel. Foreign workers often do the so-called "triple-D-jobs" (difficult, dirty and dangerous), are usually organized in groups and specialize in specific work steps. In the 1990s, foreign workers in Singapore slept in over-crowded container camps. 25 men shared one container. "How to call it? It is a box," one Thai worker told German researcher Simon A. Peth (University of Bonn), who put together the online photo exhibition. He says migration was (and is) only worthwhile through overtime work. As a result, 10 to 14-hour days are the norm. Back in the day, work accidents on the sometimes chaotic construction sites were inevitable — and disastrous for the injured. Then as now, says researcher Peth, immobility due to a broken leg or a similar injury means the end of a labor migration. Although employers must nowadays cover workers with their own health insurance, they are sometimes reluctant to pay the high costs injuries can incur. In the 1990s, Singapore was one of the top destinations of overseas migration from Thailand. Although the official figure is unknown, what's clear is that the number of Thai migrant workers has dropped considerably, to 15-20,000 in 2016 since its peak period, which lasted from the mid-1990s until 2010/11. In most camps, workers are separated by nationality to avoid conflicts. "People who go to Singapore have been trained like soldiers, … if it is not the time to sleep, you don't sleep." That's how one Thai migrant worker described his experience. Since 1994, the year of Jiangkratok's arrival, Singapore's skyline and Central Business District (CBD) have undergone a transformation possible only with the help of millions of cheap labor migrants from around the world. Located in Singapore's industrial far west, Tuas View is the city-state's largest dormitory for foreign workers with beds for 16,800 men. Its amenities include a mini-market, a beer garden, a 250-seat cinema as well as medical and shopping facilities. Although being hailed as the ideal model for housing workers, they have next to no privacy as 250 cameras monitor them around the clock. Singapore's dormitories for foreign workers are strategically situated in non-residential areas on the city's fringe, from where it takes up to three hours to get to the CBD. Getting to Singapore in the first place is expensive: Labor agents demand around 80,000 Thai Baht (roughly €2,000). To put things into perspective: The average monthly household income in rural parts of Thailand is €254. Completed in 1973, the Golden Mile Complex is largely an ethnic enclave for Singapore's Thai population and the central arrival point for buses with workers from Southern Thailand and Malaysia. Thais frequent the vast complex for the some 400 shops as well as a Thai supermarket, restaurants and bars; they also visit the doctor, send remittances home, get a hair cut or meet with their labor agents. At the Thai Office of Labor Affairs in the Golden Mile complex, Thai workers can come with individual problems and sort out administrative, health- or employer-related issues. They can even do correspondence courses. In Singapore, daily wages are graded by nationality: According to reasearcher Peth, Thais earn 23 Singapore dollars ($17), Indians $14 and Myanmar citizens $12. "I stayed in Singapore for almost 22 years, but Thailand is still my home. Singapore is a place to earn money, but here in Thailand I am happy." Part of Singapore's immigration policy is avoiding the mingling of migrant workers with its citizens. Company trucks haul workers to and from contruction sites. All this leads to a state of "permanent temporariness," as researchers have called it. After having stayed in Singapore for three years supervising a group of 15 workers, photographer Srikhoon Jiangkratok returned to his village in Northeast Thailand in 1995. Talking about his motivation to take the pictures, he told German researcher Peth: "I took these photos because I wanted to show what it means to work abroad. It is tough." Author: Benjamin Bathke Are migrant workers from other countries advertised? Yes, but not as often as Indonesian migrant workers. I remember the Philippine government sent an objection note when Filipino workers were offered through these advertisements in Singapore in 2006. The ads were directly retracted as a result. To my knowledge, this was the first time a government sent a diplomatic note because of an advertisement. Most of the workers advertised are experienced. It means that they are already registered on the government's official list. How do you think experienced workers can fall victim to human trafficking? I assume they are recruited directly in Indonesia by a Singaporean agent, or Indonesian agents supply the workers to Singapore. The Indonesian government needs to investigate this second possibility. Read more: Singapore film about modern slavery and love wins at Locarno Film Festival Does it mean that the recruitment process in Indonesia is illegal? Not necessarily, it can also be done through legal processes. But related to the case in Singapore, if the workers are offered in ads, it means they do not yet have an employment contract. One of the requirements for workers to be able to work outside of Indonesia is that they have an employment contract clearly stating the address of their future employers. It means that they should already know and have employers before leaving the country. Anis Hidayah is a member of the board of directors and the Head of Center of Migration Study at MigrantCare in Jakarta, Indonesia. The interview was conducted by Rizki Nugraha. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/16ApV