"Christ Jesus, our hope." In an unorthodox fashion that is typical of Pope Francis, the motto of his upcoming visit to the Baltic states deliberately puts first the word "Christ" (Greek for "the anointed one" or "savior") instead of the more usual "Jesus Christ." The pontiff will take his core message of simplicity and sincerity in faith as well as his man-of-the-people style to Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia during a four-day visit that starts on Saturday. The two days he will spend in Lithuania make up the longest and most important stage of the tour. With 2.8 million citizens, it is the most populous of the three states. It is also the only majority Catholic country in northern Europe, with 77 percent of the population belonging to the Roman Catholic Church. The church regularly tops public opinion polls as the nation's most trusted institution. Catholic communities in traditionally Protestant Latvia and Estonia are small. Moreover, according to polling data, Estonia, together with the Czech Republic, counts as one of the least religious nations in Europe. The pontiff will meet politicians — his first appointment in Lithuania is with President Dalia Grybauskaite — as well as visit and pray at the Vilnius Museum of Occupations and Freedom Fights, which chronicles suffering and resistance during the Soviet and Nazi regimes. For the Baltic nations, Pope Francis' trip carries special significance in a year full of symbolism. All three celebrate 100 years of their independence in 2018. It is also 25 years since Francis' predecessor, John Paul II, visited the Baltics, the first pope to do so. He came in 1993, just a few days after Russian troops finally withdrew from the region, wrapping up half a century of Soviet occupation. Memories of that event are still very much alive. The pope is to meet with Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite (L) and Vytautas Landsbergis (R), the first post-communist Lithuanian president Professor Vytautas Landsbergis, Lithuania's first head of state after the restoration of independence in March 1990, immediately invited Pope John Paul to come to the country. He was already an opposition parliamentarian when the visit took place, having lost the country's first presidential election in 1992. "For me, the most striking image is of the staff of Sejmas [Lithuania's parliament] — couriers, guards, cleaners — spontaneously kneeling, all as one, when John Paul entered the building, while the MPs, most of them former Communists, remained standing," Landsbergis told DW. He and his wife will attend the papal Mass in Kaunas, Lithuania's second-largest city and former interwar capital, on September 23. "Today, politicians the world over have a conviction that economics determines everything in our lives. Pope Francis has a refreshing way of reminding us that this is not so, that greed and unbridled individualism are big problems," said Landsbergis. In the Baltics, capitalism still 'trends' However, Pope Francis' critical attitude to free markets and concern about climate change, which resonate in other parts of the West, will find less response in the Baltics. Twenty-five years after liberation, people here attach great importance to personal freedom and individual choice. "This pope keeps telling us that our gravest sin is indifference," says Father Ricardas Doveika, former chancellor of the Vilnius Roman Catholic diocese. "This is exactly what we here inherited from communist times. Then everyone was minding their own business. It is now combined with the self-centered consumerism of the new era. No wonder we have nearly 4,000 children with living parents placed in orphanages! When he visits, the pope will address this problem head on, I am sure." On March 13, 2013, Jorge Mario Bergoglio greeted the crowd in St. Peter's Square in the heart of Rome with a simple "good evening!" moments after the Conclave had selected him as the new pope. He thus began his term with a down-to-earth tone that has marked his stewardship of the Catholic Church ever since. The new pontiff immediately tackled topics that the Catholic Church had been discussing before his election. He set up a nine-person cardinal conference to reform the church's organization and direction. The guiding principle: the Roman Catholic Church is not an end in itself. Instead, it should seek to spread the teachings of the Bible and bring the Vatican and its followers closer together. The deaths of migrants crossing from Africa to Europe are "a thorn in the heart," said Pope Francis on his first bridge building trip to Lampedusa. At the time of his visit in the summer of 2013, thousands of migrants were on the Italian island hoping to receive legal permits to continue their journey onto the European mainland. It aligned perfectly with his own message of the "poor church:" the picture of Pope Francis with the 30-year-old Renault 4 that he had received as a gift from a pastor in Verona. Francis reportedly wanted to drive the car, but was not allowed to due to security concerns. The symbol of modesty has endured. Francis' worldly style quickly made him an icon for progressive Catholics and other Christians. Even non-Christians applauded the pope and rubbed their eyes in amazement at the contrast between Francis and his conservative and academic predecessor, Pope Benedict. After 10 months in office, Francis became the first pope to make the cover of "Rolling Stone" magazine. Francis takes his task as bridge builder very seriously. He has acted as a mediator between warring parties in civil conflicts in central Africa and Colombia and also helped bring an end to frozen relations between the US and Cuba. With an eye toward the Mexican-US border, he has also urged US President Donald Trump to build bridges rather than walls. Francis has also tried to build bridges between confessions and religions. He prayed at the wailing wall in Jerusalem and met the Grand Mufti Mohammad Hussein. In Egypt, he visited the head of the Coptic Church, Tawadros II, and Grand Imam Ahmed al-Tayeb. In Myanmar, he spoke to Buddhist monks and in Havanna, he met with the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kyrill I (pictured). Francis spontaneously wed a couple on an airplane during a trip to Chile in January 2018. The two crew members were traveling with the pope on a flight from the capital Santiago to the northern city of Iquique. They had apparently told Francis of their plans to marry. Francis' reform course has been too radical for some clerics. This poster in Rome accused Francis of showing no mercy within the church. He reportedly also has little time for dissent within the Vatican. Some church members think his course is too secular, his humility too bold, its display too media-orientated. The essence of religiosity – spirituality – some fear, could get lost in it all. But the major challenge now faced by Francis is the problem of sexual abuse, including of minors, by church representatives. In January, the pontiff was heavily criticized for supporting Chilean Bishop Juan Barros (pictured right), accused of an abuse cover-up. On a recent trip to Ireland, the pope begged for forgiveness amid an abuse scandal there. But critics say much more is needed. Author: Jan D. Walter, Alexander Pearson Alcoholism, especially in rural areas, high abortion rates and church attendance are also of concern to the Catholic Church in Lithuania. Some compare the situation in Lithuania to that of its staunchly Catholic neighbor, Poland. "The same trends are also visible there," admits Laurynas Kasciunas, a conservative MP and practicing Catholic. But take Warsaw, Poland's most secular city. There average Sunday mass attendance is about 30 percent. I'd like to see such figures here, where it is at best 10-15 percent even in a traditionally more religious countryside!" Kasciunas — and the pope — may find some solace in the fact that criticism of the church and non-belief, widespread elsewhere in Europe, is visibly weaker in Lithuania. In August members of a left-leaning performance troupe called Zero Live Show dressed up as priests and delivered a mock homily, advertising an upcoming event, to parishioners gathered for Mass in a cathedral in the small town of Salcininkai near Vilnius. It made a splash on social networks, but few people, even among the progressive intelligentsia, defended the performance. The overwhelming consensus was that, although the action itself was not illegal, it was morally wrong. Those defending it in the name of artistic freedom were a clear minority. "It is easy to understand why," one Vatican official told DW. "The Catholic Church was nearly eliminated during the Soviet occupation. This martyrdom very much informs the people's view of it. They still see the church as a force for good and tend to forgive its deficiencies."