Yusaku Maezawa, a Japanese businessman and art collector worth some $3 billion (€2.6 billion), will be the world's first tourist to fly on a SpaceX rocket around the moon. Maezawa is the chief executive of Zozo, which operates Japan's popular fashion shopping site Zozotown "I choose to go to the moon," Maezawa said to cheers and applause at the California headquarters of the US aerospace company, after being introduced by SpaceX CEO Elon Musk. Read more: NASA names astronauts for first commercial space flights Maezawa is the 18th richest person in Japan, according to Forbes magazine. The 42-year-old said he will invite six to eight artists, architects, designers and other creative people on the weeklong journey in 2023. "They will be asked to create something after they return to Earth," he said. "These masterpieces will inspire the dreamer within all of us." 'Epic trip' Speculation was building on social media about the individual's identity ahead of Monday's announcement, with some space fans suggesting it was Musk himself. Musk's reply showing a Japanese flag had fueled rumors that it could be one of several Japanese businessmen and space enthusiasts, with some naming Daisuke "Dice-K" Enomoto and SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son. SpaceX has been hyping the planned Big Falcon Rocket (BFR) Lunar Mission as an epic trip. "Only 24 humans have been to the moon in history," SpaceX noted on Twitter on Friday, adding that no one has visited the moon since the last Apollo mission in 1972. Tech visionary Musk intends to revolutionize transportation, both on earth and in space, and the way humans lead their lives. Over the past two decades, the South African-born American entrepreneur has emerged as one of Silicon Valley's most recognized faces worldwide. Musk was cofounder of Paypal, which was acquired by eBay for $1.4 billion (€1.2 billion) in 2002. In 2002, Musk founded SpaceX, an aerospace manufacturer and space transport services company currently valued at over $20 billion. He wants to make space travel cheaper and, eventually, enable human life on Mars, thus giving human kind a chance at becoming multi-planetary species. SpaceX's Falcon and Dragon rocket programs both already deliver payloads into Earth's orbit. The company has said it wants to launch its Mars-bound cargo flight in 2022, followed by the first Mars flight with passengers in 2024. After founding SpaceX, Musk set up Tesla in 2003 to come up with electric autonomous vehicles and renewable energy solutions. But production bottlenecks have plagued the company, with much of its future banked on the Model 3, its first mid-price, mass-market vehicle. After the foray into electric cars, Musk last year opened a new chapter in his book of visions as he unveiled the prototype of a futuristic all-electric heavy truck. The vehicle — dubbed the Tesla Semi — is set to go into production in 2019. It would boast 500 miles of range, a battery and motors that will last 1 million miles and cheaper total operating costs than diesel models, Musk claimed. Besides running SpaceX and Tesla, Musk has also invested in the solar energy company SolarCity to turn his vision of a solar-powered future into a reality. Musk said houses equipped with Tesla's Solar Roof would feed energy to Powerwall, a sleek storage unit designed to act as an electricity fill-up station for both the house and a Tesla electric car. In 2015, Musk unveiled Powerwall, a home battery unit with a selling price of $3,500 for 10kWh and $3,000 for 7kWh. The Powerwall can be controlled via one's phone, from anywhere. But slow production rates have proved to be a problem. Hyperloop came into global prominence after it was proposed by Musk in 2013. It is viewed as a next-generation transportation system — a "fifth mode" of transport (after planes, trains, cars and boats). It uses magnetically-levitated pods and sealed partial vacuum transit tubes to move people and freight at supersonic speeds estimated to reach over 700 miles per hour (1,127 kilometers per hour). In 2016, Musk co-founded Neuralink, a neurotechnology startup that is reportedly trying to create brain-computer interfaces by integrating the human brain with artificial intelligence (AI). The project is currently at an early stage of development. Author: Srinivas Mazumdaru cmk, kw/cw (dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.