Nearly 45 minutes before kickoff, with three of Anfield's stands all but empty, Jürgen Klopp beat his chest twice as he followed his team out of the tunnel for the warmup. Hidden, as it was, behind various Champions League-branded props, this wasn't a gesture for show but a man geeing himself up before a big performance. It worked. Both Klopp and his team were effervescent early on. The players snapped into every tackle, moved the ball rapidly and dominated their French visitors. And their boss was in similar form. The famous fist pump got an early outing, as James Milner slammed Neymar to the turf before Liverpool won a ninth-minute throw in. Yep, a fist pump for a throw in. Read more: Pulisic fluke hands Dortmund lucky win As the home side continued to dominate, Klopp became more animated. His arms flailed while his hands pulled, shunted, rose, pointed and swirled like a malfunctioning assembly-line robot. Contrast of touchline style "What the boys made of the match plan was extraordinary, outstanding to be honest," Klopp said about his side's fearsome early display. "It looked much more confident, much more tuned than it was in the past." The length of a penalty box away, Klopp's opposite number, compatriot and successor at both Borussia Dortmund and Mainz, Thomas Tuchel, stood, arms folded, wearing a thousand-yard stare above his fitted shirt and skinny trousers. Liverpool's Daniel Sturridge celebrates his opener Tuchel spent the early stages sitting nervously on the sidelines, chewing gum and craning his neck to see around coaching staff on the frequent occasions the ball found was near his side's goal. Eventually that pressure told, first through Daniel Sturridge's 30th minute header and then, six minutes later, James Milner's penalty. Klopp's biceps were working overtime on those fist pumps. Tuchel, seemingly weary of both his team and his restricted view, emerged from the safety of his dugout to stand glumly with hands in pockets until Thomas Meunier hooked in to halve the deficit. But as the half ended, his frustration got the better of him and he remonstrated angrily with his backroom staff. The level of a coach's touchline animation is, of course, no real way to judge how good he is at his job. But, perhaps more than any coach in the world, it is evident just how much Klopp's touchline personality bleeds into his team. This, especially in the first hour, was a performance of exceptional energy, clear-headed decision making, unmatched desire and a demonstration of the importance of forming strong bonds — both tactically and emotionally. Bring the noise While the sustained, raucous noise that has earned this ground its reputation on big European nights made it impossible for his players to hear him bellow across the pitch, the message somehow came through loud and clear. Such high-decibel levels are encouraged by the Liverpool boss, whose penchant for heavy metal football is well known. Jürgen Klopp has a strong record against Thomas Tuchel If Klopp is most comfortable playing the high-octane rock star, pumping up the crowd and those around him, Tuchel appears much more reluctant to take center stage. His team showed their undeniable and expensive quality in flashes but offered little in the way of the intense but controlled possession football their 45-year-old boss desires until the closing stages, when Liverpool tired. For eight minutes, those flashes looked to be enough for a point after Kylian Mbappe took advantage of the second in a pair of sloppy Mohamed Salah passes to level things up on 83 minutes. At that point, even Klopp needed a moment, taking a rare seat on the bench before replacing Salah with Xherdan Shaqiri. Years of work paying off Then Klopp got the kind of moment he wanted, as substitute Roberto Firmino lashed home the decider in a sensational contest. It wasn't quite celebration time yet for Klopp, who showed his tactical nous in replacing Sadio Mane with Fabinho before PSG could kick off, to eat up those precious seconds. This time, it proved enough. Once again, Anfield was Klopp's stage and the jubilant Kop his adoring audience. After three years in charge, Liverpool are undeniably his team. A few months into his tenure, it's difficult to say the same of Tuchel and PSG just yet. "Jürgen Klopp has worked with his team for [three] years. This is what Liverpool do, they press you and make it hard for you in possession," Tuchel said in his post-match press conference. Tuchel expanded on the theme later on, going so far as to clarify his English interpreter's version of the words he spoke in French. "A lot of what Liverpool do is second nature, it’s automatic to them," he said. Minutes earlier, on the way back down the tunnel, Klopp beat his chest six times before flashing that beaming smile. This one wasn't just for him. Jürgen Klopp played professional football for 15 years, spending 11 of them in Mainz. He only reached the second division in Germany. beginning as an attacking player but ended his career as a defender. He retired midway through the 2001-02 season to fill the coaching vacancy at Mainz after the club sacked Eckhard Krautzun. During Klopp's playing career, Mainz frequently fought against relegation to the German third tier. That changed when he took the helm at the club. In Klopp's third season, Mainz earned promotion to the Bundesliga for the first time in club history. Klopp enjoyed three seasons in the top flight before Mainz were relegated again in 2007. He left the club a year later to join Borussia Dortmund. Klopp's appointment was part of a broader strategy change at Borussia Dortmund: to make football stars instead of buying them. He committed to 20-year-olds Mats Hummels and Neven Subotic as his center back pair — the youngest in the Bundesliga. Dortmund finished in sixth place and fifth place in his first two seasons at the club. From 2010 to 2012, Klopp lead Dortmund to their most successful two-year stretch in club history. They won their first Bundesliga title in nearly a decade in 2010-11. Klopp followed that accomplishment up by leading BVB to their first domestic double in club history the next season. It didn't take long for Dortmund fans to fall in love with Klopp. His press conferences became a weekly spectacle and his energy on the touchline became contagious. On the pitch, he implemented an active, high-pressing system that brought BVB, a club that was only a few years removed from near insolvency, back to the pinnacle of German football. Klopp did not secure domestic silverware after that two-year run, but he did lead Dortmund to the Champions League final in 2013 — their first final since their 1997 title. His side ultimately came up short against Bayern Munich, losing 2-1 late on to hand their German rivals a piece of their treble that year. Klopp's last season with Dortmund in 2014-15 was far worse than any other. His side was second bottom at the winter break, though Klopp wound up leading them to a seventh place finish. He did manage to get BVB to the German Cup final before losing to Wolfsburg. Dortmund and Klopp decided to part ways after the season, ending his seven-year stint with the team. It didn't take long for Klopp to land back on his feet. Liverpool appointed the German coach in October of 2015, less than five months after he parted ways with Dortmund. In his first press conference, Klopp dubbed himself "The Normal One" — after being asked how he fitted in compared to the likes of Jose Mourinho, who notoriously once called himself "a special one." Liverpool fans took to Klopp's highly animated coaching approach, but it didn't initally lead to success. The Reds finished eighth in the Premier League in his first season, though he did lead them to the Europa League final before losing to Sevilla. But he guided Liverpool to the Champions League with a fourth-place finish the following season before their third place finish this past season. Much like he was in Dortmund, Klopp has become a club favorite at Liverpool. His passionate personality and the attractive attacking football enabled by players like Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane have proved a real hit in the stands. On Saturday, Klopp could provide fans with a sixth European Cup/Champions League title. But the real prize remains a league title; Liverpool's last was in 1990. Jürgen Klopp guided Liverpool to the brink of the biggest title in European club football. However, an injury to Mo Salah and two blunders by German goalkeeper Loris Karius put paid to Liverpool's hopes of winning the 2018 Champions League as Real Madrid made history at their expense. Author: Davis VanOpdorp