Women foreign ministers from around the world have kicked off a two-day conference in Montreal, Canada, that is aimed at highlighting women's key role in politics and decision-making processes. The meeting is being co-chaired by Canada's top diplomat, Chrystia Freeland, and the foreign affairs representative of the EU, Federica Mogherini, who at the opening both expressed hope that the meeting would set a precedent for growing cooperation between women ministers. Women are "key to finding solutions to the political, economic and social challenges facing our societies," Freeland said in her opening remarks on Friday, as reported by the Agence France-Presse news agency. "When we are all involved in the decision-making process, our societies become stronger, our economies and our middle class become more prosperous and our countries safer," she added. The agenda is scheduled to cover topics including international security and peace, promoting and strengthening democracy and the elimination of gender-based violence. Read more: Human development progress overshadowed by inequality Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2sdUe Benefiting all of society Mogherini also stressed the all-around benefits to societies when women have full access to decision-making positions in all spheres. "It is not just an issue of equal rights ... it is working to avoid a clear waste of human capital this world cannot afford any more," she said. Read more: To combat climate change, increase women's participation The conference, which ends on Saturday afternoon, is also being attended by female top diplomats from Andorra, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Namibia, Norway, Panama, South Africa, Rwanda, Saint Lucia and Sweden. Altogether some 30 women hold positions as ministers for foreign affairs around the world. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has made gender equality a high priority on his government's agenda and Canada's Cabinet has an equal number of women and men for the first time in the country's history. Read more: Gender gap report: Equal pay now 217 years away Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31z88 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.