"There’s nothing more shit than second place," reads a quote from Bayer Leverkusen’s former Dutch striker Erik Meijer on the walls of the BayArena’s west stand. For some time now, second has been the best either of these sides could realistically hope for while, at the same time, being close to a minimum expectation for Dortmund. Though a rousing comeback from 2-0 down to 4-2 up sends them top, Saturday's wild contest of stray passes, slack defending and incisive blows suggests neither team looks ready to improve their lot much more than what it has been in recent years. "Of course it increases our belief, it's the second time we have had a difficult match where we were behind," Dortmund midfielder Thomas Delaney told DW after the match. "Red Bull Leipzig was the first one, and I think that it makes us grow that we have to pull ourselves out of the swamp and go that step further. I don't want to talk about being a championship candidate or anything but, of course, we’ve had a very good start." Lucien Favre’s men have indeed had a good start to the season, but their start to Saturday’s match was anything but. Coming off the back of a 7-0 win over Nuremberg, Dortmund could reasonably have been expected to start in confident fashion. Instead, they were jittery and incapable of building from the back — though that didn't stop them from trying. Home side sense weakness Those in red and black smelt their opponents' unexpected vulnerability and ferociously pressed to exploit it.  Ten minutes in, a simple ball forward from Achraf Hakimi was cut out with Dortmund's midfield streaming forward and, to compound that error, two BVB men then fell at Kai Havertz’ feet. While the fact that Alario's poor cross found its way to the onrushing Mitchell Weiser was fortunate, the right back's thunderous finish was as emphatic as they come. Favre had it right when he said his men made a series of "unnecessary mistakes." Another was to come before the break, as Dan-Axel Zagadou and Manuel Akanji both decided the other would clear a corner and allowed Jonathan Tah to fill his boots. The two defenders were part of a backline with an average age of under 21. "I wouldn't blame them," said Delaney. "But, of course, we do have young players, we have new players, we have a new coach and we're still finding ourselves. But when you see our top level, it is still very good and we can put on young players that can turn the match." And that's exactly what they did. First Jacob Bruun Larsen (20) stabbed home from close range after Lukas Hradecky spilt Marco Reus’ volley, then Jadon Sancho made the latest in a string of eye-catching interventions from the bench. Sancho makes his mark, again The 18-year-old English winger picked up the ball deep in his own half and drove at the space Leverkusen naively left behind as they tried to kill the game with a third. He twice exchanged passes with Reus before the Dortmund skipper leveled things up. "We just have that special chemistry. I read him, he reads me," said Sancho of the equalizer that saw the ball travel from one goal to the other in a few seconds. Leverkusen's players look distraught after their late loss to Dortmund It was another substitute who made the next critical intervention. With Dortmund probing around the box without much penetration, Paco Alcacer took matters into his own hands, laying the ball off before charging to the front post to flick in the cross. Sancho and Alcacer combined in injury time, as the two took advantage of Hradecky's decision to come up for a corner to seal the win. This season, Sancho has provided a goal or assist every 31 minutes and Alacacer every 17 minutes. Still, Dortmund simply cannot keep "pulling themselves out of the swamp," to use Delaney’s phrase. Late comebacks and high-impact substitutes will win games, but Bayern have demonstrated that it's consistency and experience that wins leagues. As thrilling as Saturday’s game was — and as much as these sides have the attacking talent — the soft underbellies are all too apparent. Despite it all, Dortmund are top, at last. And while Delaney and his boss were reluctant to talk about a title tilt, those fans and Bundesliga observers starved of a real race for so long won't be so reticent. Favre will demand that BVB learn. As things stand, under Heiko Herrlich Leverkusen haven't. Borussia Dortmund staged a magical second half comeback to beat Leverkusen after having been 2-0 down at half time. Marco Reus, pictured here, scored the second goal with Bruun Larsen and substitute Paco Alcacer also among the goals. The victory sends Dortmund top of the Bundesliga for the first time in a year. At their sixth attempt, Schalke have finally picked up some points in the Bundesliga. A shocking start to the season had left them rooted to the bottom of the table, but last season's second placed team edged past Mainz courtesy of an Andreas Schöpf strike in the first half. A goalkeeping calamity was not enough to stop Stuttgart picking up their first win of the season against in-form Bremen, who missed the chance to go top. Anastasios Donis and Gozalo Castro scored the goals for the hosts, but the game will be remembered for a farcical moment when a throw in back to goalkeeper Ron-Robert Zieler's was miscontrolled and ended up in his own net. Having been thumped 7-0 by Borussia Dortmund earlier in the week, Nuremberg gave their fans something to cheer about with a big win over their newly promoted counterparts Fortuna. Nuremberg's goals came from Behrens' 28th minute penalty, Ishak and Palacios. Fortuna are now without a win in their last three games. The Volkswagen Arena saw a gripping game between Wolfsburg and high-flying Gladbach. Twice behind, Wolfsburg fought back each time to ensure they pick up a valuable point. But Bruno Labbadia's side are now without a win in four games after they picked up maximum points in the first two. Gladbach, meanwhile, have won two of their last three and sit fourth in the table. A Yussuf Poulsen double gave RB Leipzig an impressive win at Hoffenheim, who scored an injury time penalty too late to mount a grandstand finish. After a quiet first half, Poulsen discovered his shooting boots after the break to make it back-to-back wins for Ralf Rangnick's men in Sinsheim. For Hoffenheim, however, it's a first loss since Matchday 2. Hertha's players celebrate after a memorable night in the German capital. Hertha pulled off a stunning win against the Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich, their first defeat under coach Robert Kovac. The goals both came in the first half: first a Vedad Ibisevic penalty, which was followed by a fine goal from Ondrej Duda. Author: Michael Da Silva