Hurricane Florence brought a storm surge of some 3 meters (10 feet) as it began battering the US east coast early on Friday. Coastal streets were inundated with ocean water, causing damage to dozens of homes and businesses, officials said. The US National Hurricane Center described how winds of up to 90 miles (150 kilometers) per hour were pummeling the state of North Carolina. Read more: Major US tourist sites prepare for Hurricane Florence The center downgraded Florence to a Category 1 hurricane, but warned that it still carried "very dangerous winds." "Just because the wind speed came down, the intensity of this storm came down ... please do not let your guard down," said Brock Long, the administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), earlier on Thursday. Given the storm's size and slow speed, officials warned that Florence could cause similar large-scale flood damage to that seen in the Houston area during Hurricane Harvey just over a year ago. "Inland flooding kills a lot of people, unfortunately, and that's what we're about to see," Long added. Read more: The world's deadliest hurricanes, typhoons and cyclones Within hours of the storm making landfall, officials in Onslow County — which includes the city of Jacksonville, reported "major structural damage to homes, businesses and institutions." WXII-TV reported that 150 people were waiting to be rescued from rising waters in the city New Bern. A city spokeswoman Colleen Roberts told WRAL-TV that 200 people have already been plucked to safety. About 1.7 million people in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia have been put under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders to avoid what emergency officials called a "once in a lifetime" storm. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34mxS Thousands of people have taken temporary shelter in converted schools and community centers, while those who have ignored orders have been warned that rescuers will not be able to reach them at the height of the storm. North Carolina's Emergency Management tweeted that more than 154,000 homes were already without electricity by late Thursday. Duke Energy, a local power company, estimated that up to three million customers could lose their supply as a result of Florence. On top of the potentially destructive hurricane, forecasters also put parts of North Carolina on tornado watch. mm/kms (AFP, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.