Berlin's top diplomat Heiko Maas said Wednesday that Germany would consider strengthening its humanitarian aid for Syrian refugees if the battle for Idlib escalates. Maas, who is on his first official visit to Turkey, made the comments at a joint press conference with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu in Ankara. "Germany is ready to consider increasing its humanitarian commitment [to Syria] should multi-front battles take place," Maas said, following talks with his counterpart. "We will continue our efforts to prevent it," Maas added. "Turkey is possibly better prepared than others to weigh in on these developments." Ankara has warned of a humanitarian catastrophe if Syrian President Bashar al-Assad launches a large-scale offensive to capture Idlib, the last major rebel-held stronghold in the Syria conflict. Turkey fears such an assault would send many more refugees fleeing north, across its border. Cavusoglu told reporters a common strategy was needed to stamp out radical groups in Idlib, but warned that the continued bombing of the city had to stop. He added that he had made as much clear to Russia, which launched new strikes on Idlib this week. Read more: Ankara aims to defuse tensions with European allies Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34KhV Strained ties The two foreign ministers also pledged to work towards improving relations between their countries. Ahead of his two-day visit, Maas made clear that concerns about Turkey's human rights record and the release of German detainees from Turkish prisons would be high on the agenda. He had also expressed hope that ties could be on the mend. "Turkey is more than just a big neighbor; it is also an important partner for Germany," said Maas, also issuing the comment in Turkish. "It is in Germany's strategic interest that we shape our relations with Turkey constructively." According to Germany's foreign office, seven German citizens currently in custody in Turkey are being held for "political" reasons. Their situation was said to be a priority for Maas' visit. Maas had previously stressed that relations with Turkey cannot return to normal until all detainees are freed. But in Wednesday's conference, Cavusoglu said there shouldn't be any preconditions for normalization. Read more: German politicians wary of pending Erdogan state visit March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. Tolu and Steudtner have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier nm/msh ( AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.