The United Nations Security Council will convene an urgent meeting on Monday to discuss what Washington says are efforts by some countries "to undermine and obstruct" sanctions against North Korea. In a statement, the US mission to the UN said the agenda would be "to discuss the implementation and enforcement of UN sanctions" on Pyongyang that were designed to pressure the isolated state to give up its nuclear weapons. Washington has accused Moscow of altering an independent UN report to hide language that implied Russian companies violated sanctions on the North. China and Russia among worst offenders The US has previously accused Russia and China of making illegal petroleum exports to North Korea. Read more: South Korea urges for 'bold decisions' ahead of next Trump-Kim summit Every year on September 9, North Korea celebrates its birthday by holding a military parade in the capital, Pyongyang. Unlike previous years, this year the regime chose to refrain from showing off its long-range missiles and instead exhibited projects that highlighted the country's economic achievements. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea, as the North is officially known, was proclaimed on September 9, 1948, three years after the former Soviet Union and the United State divided the peninsula between them in the closing days of World War II. The peninsula has remained split since the 1950-53 Korean War, which ended in an armistice rather than a peace treaty. On Sunday, thousands of North Korean troops, followed by artillery and military tanks, paraded through Pyongyang, but the celebration lacked the usual jingoism that has been associated with the isolated regime for decades. Immediately after the parade, thousands of citizens rallied through Kim Il Sung Square, displaying economic themes and calls for Korean reunification. Civilian groups carried flags and flowers in a bid to demonstrate a softer image of the country. "It looks like the North Koreans really tried to tone down the military nature of this," Chad O'Carroll, managing director of Korea Risk Group, told the Agence France-Presse news agency. Any display of intercontinental ballistic missiles would cast doubt on its commitment to denuclearization, he added. North Koran leader Kim Jong Un was present at the parade but did not address the assembled crowd. He showed off his country's friendship with China by raising the hand of President Xi Jinping's envoy as they saluted the crowd together afterwards. In a historic meeting with US President Donald Trump in June, Kim pledged to work toward denuclearizing the Korean peninsula. But Kim's efforts to ease tensions with the US have stalled since the Singapore meeting. While Washington insists Pyongyang commits to denuclearization first, the Kim regime wants the removal of sanctions and a peace agreement with the South to end the Korean War. South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who will meet Kim for a summit in Pyongyang on September 18, will try to persuade the North Korean leader to take concrete steps toward denuclearization. On September 5, Kim said he wanted to denuclearize during US President Donald Trump's first term, to which Trump replied on Twitter: "We will get it done together." Author: Shamil Shams US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Friday accused Moscow of working to impair the international sanctions, first agreed in 2006 and subsequently strengthened to severely weaken the North Korean economy. "Russia has actively attempted to undermine the UN Security Council resolutions, the work of the ... committee at the U.N. that evaluates compliance with sanctions," he told a news briefing at the US State Department. Pompeo said he hoped the UN sanctions committee would "publish the original document … which shows clear activities related to sanctions and sanctions violations." Coal and arms smuggling The report, which was submitted to the Security Council's sanctions committee last month, warned that Pyongyang had not stopped its nuclear and missile programs and was violating UN sanctions on exports. It said North Korea was smuggling coal at sea, while flouting an arms embargo and financial restrictions. In July, Washington accused North Korea of "illegally smuggling" refined petroleum products beyond the annual quota of 500,000 barrels allowed under the sanctions. Read more: South Korea slashes North Korea human rights budget, raises regime aid Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34UHg US documents cited 89 instances between January 1 and May 30 in which North Korean tankers likely delivered refined products "illicitly procured" via transfers from foreign ships at sea. China, which is Pyongyang's closest ally, is responsible for more than 90 percent of the isolated country's trade. 'Criminal activities' Other activities cited by the US include cyber theft and other criminal activities, which Pompeo has previously said are "generating significant revenues for the regime and they must be stopped." On Friday, he said Washington was continuing its dialogue with Pyongyang about "how to effectuate achieving all of the commitments made" at a June 12 summit between US President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un, the North Korean leader. Read more: US to resume military drills on Korean Peninsula Earlier this year, Washington claimed that the sanctions had cut off all North Korean exports, 90 percent of its trade, and disbanded its pool of workers sent abroad to earn hard currency. Many diplomats and analysts credit the sanctions with helping promote the thaw in relations between North and South Korea, as well as the June meeting between Trump and Kim, at which they agreed to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33QJS mm/jm (AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.