A tsunami triggered by a powerful 7.5 magnitude earthquake off the coast of the Indonesian island of Sulawesi on Friday evening crashed into least two cities, including the popular tourist resort of Palu, leaving at least 30 people dead. A tsunami up to two meters high swept way houses in Palu, the capital of central Sulawesi province. It also struck a smaller city, Donggala, closer to the epicenter of the quake 80 kilometers (50 miles) away. National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho did not provide a death toll but said there were "many dead." "Bodies of victims were found in several places, because they were hit by the rubble of collapsing buildings or swept by tsunami ... but we are still collecting data," Nugroho said on Saturday. A doctor in Palu told Metro TV that the bodies of 30 people had been taken to his hospital and 12 other injured needed surgery. Communications in the area have been cut due to power outages, hampering rescue and clean up efforts. A smartphone video circulating on the social media showed a powerful wave hitting Palu with people screaming and fleeing in panic. The wave damaged several buildings, including a mosque. More than 600,000 people live in Palu and Donggala. A smaller earthquake had struck the Palu area earlier on Friday, destroying some homes and killing at least one person in Donggala. Indonesia, which is located on the "Ring of Fire," is prone to earthquakes. In December 2004, a magnitude 9.1 earthquake off the island of Sumatra triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean, killing nearly 230,000 people in 13 countries, including more than 120,000 in Indonesia. cw, ap/sms (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The Indonesian province of Aceh, located at the northern end of Sumatra, was the hardest hit by the tsunami. More than 130,000 people died in this region alone. This picture taken on January 8, 2005 shows the devastation caused by the tsunami in the provincial capital Banda Aceh. Ten years later, many of the tsunami survivors in Aceh have regained their livelihoods. Houses, roads, bridges and ports have been rebuilt in what the World Bank described as "the most successful reconstruction effort." This picture taken in December 2014 provides an aerial view of houses in the capital city. Aceh was the worst hit location, being the closest major area to the epicenter of the 9.1 magnitude quake, which made some 1.5 million people homeless in Southeast Asia. This picture shows people displaced by the tsunami, walking amid their ruined neighborhood just days after the disaster. The Indian Ocean tsunami also prompted an unprecedented humanitarian response and an international relief effort. Many of the buildings are now new or significantly repaired. This picture taken in December 2014 shows a motorcyclist driving past a boat washed up onto people's homes. The province of Aceh was the first hit by the tsunami, with waves of up to 35 meters, killing tens of thousands and leaving behind a path of destruction. As seen in this January 2005 picture, the houses surrounding this partly damaged mosque in the Lampuuk coastal district of Banda Aceh were wiped out by the massive waves. Since the disaster, Aceh has become more religiously observant, as many people saw the tsunami as God's punishment for their immorality, evidenced by the fact that many mosques remained standing. This picture taken 10 years later shows the renovated mosque surrounded by new houses and rebuilt community. A massive undersea earthquake off Sumatra on December 26, 2004 - known as the 2004 Sumatra-Andaman earthquake - triggered the Indian Ocean tsunami. Its tidal waves reached at least 11 countries from Australia to Tanzania, claiming about 230,000 lives. This picture shows a scene of devastation in the Indonesian city of Banda Aceh. The outpouring of international aid helped residents rebuild their community stronger than before the disaster. The tsunami also sparked peace talks that led to a deal in 2005 between separatist rebels and the central government, ending a three-decade long war that claimed thousands of lives. Describing her impressions shortly after the tsunami, US journalist Kira Kay said: "Bodies remained under rubble; the body retrieval caravans – some of them run by Islamic civil society groups – were dumping them by the truckload into mass graves. The stench was terrible." Aceh was always more conservative than other parts of Indonesia - in fact the nickname for Aceh is "the Porch of Mecca" as it is at the tip of the country facing Saudi Arabia. But in recent years, there has been an increased implementation of the region's special Shariah laws, including rules governing the clothing of women and moral behaviors generally. Author: Gabriel Domínguez