Despite low voter turnout, Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev declared Sunday's referendum on changing the country's name to North Macedonia a "democratic success." Electoral officials said more than 90 percent backed the renaming deal, but only around 35 percent of the electorate cast ballots — well short of the 50 percent threshold needed to make a poll legally valid. Voters were asked whether they backed a deal with Greece that would change Macedonia's name, settling a longrunning dispute with Athens and paving the way for NATO and European Union membership. Read more: Macedonia referendum: Country at a crossroads In a press conference after polling closed, Zaev didn't mention the turnout, but said he would seek Parliament's support to amend the constitution and get the bilateral deal ratified. Zaev added he would immediately call an early election if the amendments fail to get the required two-thirds backing. For decades Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) had a contentious relationship over the name. When Yugoslavia broke up Macedonia declared its independence and took the name Republic of Macedonia, Greece objected as its northern region is also called Macedonia. In 2018, the two countries settled the dispute and Macedonia is now known as The Republic of Nothern Macedonia. The Irish have long had a contentious relationship with the United Kingdom. While Ireland was for centuries part of the UK, the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 gave Ireland complete independence in its home affairs but an opt-out clause allowed Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom. The islands in the southern Atlantic have had French, British, Spanish and Argentinian settlements. The British refer to the archipelago as the Falkland Islands and reasserted its rule over them in 1833. Argentina maintains that the islands are called the Islas Malvinas and are a part of its territory. In 1982, Argentina invaded the islands until a British force retook the territories. The small group of islands controlled by Japan in the East China Sea has long been a sore point between Japan and China. China claims it discovered what it calls the Diaoyu islands in the 14th century. After World War II, the US administered the island but returned control to Japan in 1972. With the discovery of oil reserves in 1968, ownership is now once again an issue. Author: Andy Valvur Taking Macedonia west Citing preliminary results that showed more than 90 percent of those who voted supported the deal, Zaev told AFP it was now "parliament's turn to confirm the will of the majority." "I am determined  to take Macedonia into the European Union and NATO." Read more: Angela Merkel backs 'Macedonia' renaming referendum Zaev struck the deal with Greece's government in June in a bid to end a decades-old spat between the two countries. Greece has accused its northern neighbor of stealing the historic legacy — and even territory — of its northernmost province, also called Macedonia. The rift resulted Greece blocking Macedonia from joining NATO and the European Union. Under the deal, Greece would drop its complaints. NATO head Jens Stoltenberg hailed the support for Macedonia name change, seeing at as a historic chance to end a decades-long spat with Greece. "I urge all political leaders and parties to engage constructively and responsibly to seize this historic opportunity," Stoltenberg said on his twitter account. "NATO's door is open," he added. The EU also encouraged all sides to respect the result of the referendum. "I now expect all political leaders to respect this decision and take it forward with utmost responsibility and unity across party lines," EU enlargement commissioner Johannes Hahn said in a statement. US State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert urged Macedonian lawmakers "to rise above partisan politics and seize this historic opportunity to secure a brighter future for the country as a full participant in Western institutions." Read more: Macedonia name change could be a game changer "The United States strongly supports the agreement's full implementation, which will allow Macedonia to take its rightful place in NATO and the EU, contributing to regional stability, security, and prosperity," Nauert said. But not everyone praised the referendum for the same reasons, with Greek Defence Minister Pavlos Kamenos cheering the fact that the referendum had failed to achieve the minimum desired turnout. "When I said the referendum will fail, I was criticized. Now 68 per cent of the nation declared the agreement invalid," said Kamenos.  Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/317qT Opposition hails referendum flop Critics of the pact, including President Gjorge Ivanov, had called for Sunday's vote to be boycotted. Referendum opponents celebrated the weak turnout, chanting "Macedonia" outside Parliament in the capital, Skopje. Hristijan Mickoski, head of the opposition VMRO party, said the referendum had failed. "The fact is that the agreement with Greece did not receive a green light," he said. "This today is a defeat not only for the agreement with Greece, but for the crime of those who are in power." Read more: Zoran Zaev: EU accession talks a 'historic decision' Thus far, Zaev and his coalition partners from the ethnic Albanian minority have pledges of support from about 70 lawmakers to get the deal ratified. That means they would need backing from about a dozen MPs from the VMRO in order to secure the required two-thirds majority. If the amendments are approved in Macedonia, the deal would then need to be approved by Greece. law,nm/aw (Reuters, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.