Hundreds of civilians have fled the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib ahead of the Syrian regime's imminent military action in the rebel's last major bastion. The Syrian government has vowed to retake the province, which has been held by the opposition since 2015. Idlib, which is largely controlled by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, an al-Qaida-affiliated Islamist alliance, is home to some three million people – around half of them displaced from other parts of the war-torn country. Aid agencies and human rights groups warned of a major humanitarian crisis should Bashar Assad's regime launch a military offensive against Idlib's rebels. The leaders of Iran, Russia and Turkey are holding talks in Tehran on Friday to discuss the situation in Idlib and find ways to avert a possible humanitarian disaster. Read more:What is Iran's role in Syria if Assad wins the war? Turkish President erdogan (center) hopes the Friday summit in Tehran could help resolve issues Turkey spars with Iran and Russia over Idlib On Friday afternoon, presidents of Russia and Turkey arrived in Tehran to take part in the conference. Addressing the summit, Rouhani said achieving peace in Idlib will be the "ultimate goal." Russian President Vladimir Putin emphasized on taking joint measures to "stabilize" Syria but insisted that "terrorists must be removed from Idlib." Erdogan reminded the summit participants that Idlib is the only remaining de-escalation zone in Syria. The Turkish president condemned Assad for massacring the Syrian people. "We have hosted millions of Syrians... We don't want to see blood in Idlib and we must find a reasonable solution to the crisis," Erdogan said, adding that Iran Russia needs to pay heed to Turkey's concerns. Ahead of the trilateral summit, Turkish President Erdogan also held separate talks with his Iranian counterpart Rouhani. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34TSB Last major rebel bastion The Syrian government and its allies have already amassed a large number of troops near the province for a decisive assault. Turkey, which backs some factions of Idlib's rebels, is against a potential military offensive on Idlib, fearing it could trigger a massive refugee crisis with desperate Syrians attempting to find safety on its territory. Ankara criticized Russian airstrikes on the province ahead of the Friday summit in Iran. But for the Syrian government, recapturing Idlib is vital because the strategically important province borders Latakia, an Assad stronghold and home to the biggest Russian airbase in the country. Samir Salha, a political scientist at Istanbul's Kocali Universtity, says Idlib is important for all international forces. "Those who will prevail in Idlib will prevail across Syria," Salha told DW. Regime backers Iran and Russia have vowed their support to the Syrian regime in regaining control of all rebel-held areas. Moscow said the Syrian army was preparing to solve the problem of "terrorism" in the rebel stronghold. "We have killed, we are killing and we will kill terrorists... whether that be in Aleppo, Idlib or other parts of Syria," said Kremlin spokeswoman Maria Zakharova. Her Iranian counterpart, Bahram Ghassemi, assured Assad of Iran's support and willingness to "continue its role as adviser and help" for the Idlib campaign. Read more: Merkel to Trump: Russia needed to restrain Syria's Assad from attacking Idlib Military offensive imminent Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said a "ruthless process" in Idlib was underway but the Friday trilateral summit in Tehran could help resolve issues. According to Iran's state media, President Hassan Rouhani, Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Erdogan will also hold "bilateral meetings" on the summit's sidelines. The talks should focus on "further joint efforts to ensure long-term stabilization," in Syria, including the "creation of conditions for the repatriation of refugees and internally displaced persons," the Kremlin said. Despite these efforts, Syrian media reported Monday that the military action in Idlib could begin immediately after the summit. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said that Turkey, Iran and Russia had agreed to establish de-escalation zones in Syria, including Idlib, however, "unfortunately Daraa, Homs, eastern Ghouta are gone one by one." Earlier on Friday, a spokesman for the Turkey-backed rebel alliance expressed hope the Tehran meeting would at least help avert the humanitarian crisis in Idlib. Naji al-Mustafa said Friday his fighters were prepared for the battle but the Syrian regime's possible attack could trigger a large wave of displacement and a lot of destruction. Meanwhile, Idlib residents reportedly held anti-Assad rallies in several parts of the province, protesting an imminent government offensive. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34TSB US trying to cement influence President Donald Trump has also warned the Syrian regime against committing a "slaughter" in Idlib. The US wants to maintain its influence in Syria. After tacitly accepting that Assad will remain Syrian president for the foreseeable future, Washington now wants to at least limit Iran's influence in the country as much as possible. "The US shares this goal with Saudi Arabia and Israel," said Turkish expert Salha, adding that this objective, however, puts the US on a collision course with Russia. Abdel Bari Atwan, editor-in-chief of the online Rai al-youm newspaper, believes that if regional and international powers don't show flexibility on Idlib, the conflict could spread out of Syria. "The strong presence of US and Russian naval units in both the eastern Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf suggest that the two superpowers are preparing for a regional or even a global confrontation," Atwan told DW. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to Syrians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks to the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran has supported Syria, its only Arab ally, for decades. Eager to maintain its ally, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops when the conflict emerged in 2011. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson 