Though only an hour's train journey separates their two cities, Hertha Berlin and Wolfsburg are two very different clubs. Under Pal Dardai, the capital city outfit have become a byword for stability and solidity, the very qualities Saturday's opponents have lacked in recent years. Since Dardai took the coaching reins at Hertha in 2015, the Wolves have gone through five coaches, the Volkswagen emissions crisis and the sales of Kevin de Bruyne and Julian Draxler. Read more: Labaddia more than just a fire fighter at Wolfsburg They've also registered a memorable first leg win over Real Madrid in the Champions League knockout stages and survived two relegation playoffs in that period. Comments made this week by Jörg Schmadtke, Wolfsburg's managing director in charge of sport to news agency SID, revealed something of the tug-of-war between the rich upstarts who won the Bundesliga in 2009 and the German Cup in 2015 and the financially straitened club of the last two seasons. Seeking stability "We always have the desire to be a serious Bayern hunter," Schmadtke said, before tempering those words almost immediately. "First of all, we need to stabilize ourselves a lot, and to talk about European competition after two matchdays is a bit too fast for me." Julian Draxler controls a ball during Wolfsburg'S 2016 win over Real Madrid A little over 200 kilometers (124 miles) to the east, European qualification has been achieved in two of the last three seasons. Finishes of seventh, sixth and 10th in Dardai's three full seasons in charge have been built on a foundation of defensive organization, discipline and hard work, with the Hungarian coach always preaching team values above all else. Hertha have conceded an average of 45 goals a season (or just 1.3 per game) in that time frame and the Olympic Stadium has become a daunting away trip. BSC have started in similar fashion this term, with wins over Nuremburg and Schalke meaning they are the only top-flight side yet to concede. New dimensions But the victory over last season's runners-up – though something of a smash and grab – did showcase the attacking evolution of Dardai's side. The muscular stylings of Vedad Ibisevic and the pace of Salomon Kalou remain, but in Valentino Lazaro and Ondrej Duda, Hertha have two young attackers capable of big things. Austrian winger Lazaro slipped through the Leipzig net when joining Hertha from Red Bull Salzburg in 2017. An exciting dribbler with a dangerous cross, the 22-year-old adds an unpredictable dimension Hertha have often lacked. Duda (pictured top, left), 23, scored both in the win in Gelsenkirchen. He operates a little further back in the middle of the park and endured a difficult start to life in Germany, with injuries ruling him out of almost the whole 2016-17 campaign and significant chunks of last term. But a full preseason and 90 minutes in each of Hertha's three games (two league, one cup) this season have enabled the Slovakian schemer to come to suggest his intelligent passing can make Hertha tick. Pal Dardai has turned Hertha Berlin in to a solid Bundesliga outfit "Everyone is happy for Ondrej because he had a tough year last year," said Lazaro of his teammate. "Our game plan suited him perfectly. His job was to disrupt [Sebastian] Rudy’s build-up play. We also knew he had a lot of quality and after today’s performance we know he won’t giving up his place easily." Aiming to keep spirits high Wolfsburg head coach Bruno Labaddia acknowleged both Hertha's solidity and attacking improvement in his pre-match press conference, while also expressing his delight at how well his team – who have now won their last six matches – have "clicked" since the tail end of last season. He doesn't want to lose that momentum. "I'm not a huge fan of putting a dampener on things when the atmosphere is good," he said. "We don't look like taking our foot off the gas, and two victories give us every reason to go into the game with great excitement." If either side manages to extend their perfect record on Saturday afternoon, expectations may prove very difficult to contain. Sunday belonged to Hertha Berlin, but especially midfielder Ondrej Duda. The Slovak had already given the men from the German capital the lead in the 15th minute, and he capped a fine individual display with a wonderfully struck free-kick in stoppage time. Fortuna Düsseldorf celebrate their first point of the Bundesliga season, a well-earned point at RB Leipzig. While the Bundesliga new boys would have taken a point before kick off, they will be kicking themselves that they didn't take all three points, with Jean-Kevin Augustin's strike midway through the second half salvaging a point for the struggling hosts. Towering Dutch striker Wout Weghorst (left) scored his first Wolfsburg goal as his side continued their bright start to the season. After a late win over Schalke last week, the Wolves beat another European contender. Weghorst scored the Wolves' second after an own goal from Leverkusen keeper Ramazan Özcan cancelled out Leon Bailey's opener. Renato Steffen sealed it on the hour mark. A fiery game in Frankfurt ended in dramatic fashion. The visitors took a 20th minute lead through Yuya Osako, who nutmegged Kevin Trapp on his second debut for Frankfurt. Things got worse for the Eagles when Jetro Willems saw red but Sebastian Haller converted from the spot, beating 18-year-old debutant keeper Luca Plogman. This stunning Milot Rashica free kick won it in injury time. Adam Szalai (left) is making light of Hoffenheim's loss of Mark Uth. The Hungarian hitman has now scored three in two games. His brace carried Julian Naglemann's side to their first points of the season after Dominique Heintz had given the hosts a 36th minute lead. Andrej Kramaric added the third. Freiburg boss Christain Streich was again absent, as he recovers from a slipped disc. As soon as Leon Goretzka opened the scoring on his full debut it was only a question of how many the Bavarians would score. In the end, Robert Lewandowski and Thomas Müller both chipped in to continue their strong starts to the season as Bayern cruised to victory. Stuttgart offered some early resistance but posed no offensive threat whatsover. Michael Gregoritsch and Philipp Max got 13 goals and 13 assists respectively last term and Augsburg's prolific pair were at it again on Saturday. Max found Gregoritsch early on and the forward chested it down before slamming it home. But it wasn't enough as Gladbach's big summer signing Alassane Plea heading home a second-half equalizer from a corner. The hosts became the first of the promoted sides to win a point this term after fighting back from an early Mainz goal to claim a draw. Jean Philippe Mateta nodded the visitors in to the lead but Mikael Ishak got one back just after the break. Nuremberg might have won it, but in the end had to share points with a team likely to be fellow relegation candidates this season. Despite hitting the woodwork twice, Dortmund couldn't break down their stubborn hosts. After a prolific start to Lucien Favre's Bundesliga reign last weekend, Dortmund looked blunt for the most part on Friday night. Hannover pick up a second draw in as many weeks. Author: Matt Pearson