For decades, women of menstrual age were not allowed to enter the temple as its presiding deity, Ayyappa, is believed to be a celibate. Temple authorities justify the long-standing practice on the basis of "tradition." In many South Asian cultures, menstruating women are considered "impure." For instance, menstruating Muslim women are not allowed to perform certain religious rites while having periods. But in a judgment on Friday, the Supreme Court lifted the ban that prevented women and girls from entering Sabarimala temple, which draws millions of pilgrims and devotees every year. "Restrictions can't be treated as essential religious practice," the top court ruled. "Morality cannot be viewed with a narrow lens. It has to be in harmony with the constitution. Patriarchy and religion cannot topple the power of devotion," said Justice A M Khanwilkar. However, Justice Indu Malhotra, the only dissenting judge on the five-strong bench, said "religious practice is for the religious community to decide, not for the court." Read more: Is India the worst place in the world to be a woman? Progressive rulings In the last month alone, the Supreme Court has delivered a number of progressive rulings, including striking down two separate colonial-era laws that criminalized adultery and gay sex. Civil society groups welcomed the court's verdict. "Women have a constitutional right to be able to visit any place of worship," Mariam Dhawale, the general secretary of the All India Democratic Women's Association, told DW. M C Josephine, chairperson of the Kerala state's Women Commission, said the "judgment paves the way for Hinduism to be even more inclusive." "Now temple authorities will have to implement the court's order," she told DW. Prajakta Potnis' installations come across as ominous, futuristic still lifes. The Mumbai-born artist likes to stage objects in fridges, freezers and washing machines, and some installations like the above escalators could be straight out of an eerie science fiction movie. Her art is meant as a light-hearted warning of despotism and autocracy. Reena Saini Kallat wants to transcend boundaries. Her work examines hybrid identities, fantastic animals, creatures that are half tiger and half goat. The above work, a woman's bare back with stamped names, focuses on the Kashmir conflict, part of a series of works dedicated to the constantly changing boundaries in the territorial skirmish. Bharti Kher is the only artist in the show who was not born in India. She was raised in Britain, where she felt she didn't have a place in the art world – and moved to India when she was 23 years old. She enjoys and feels inspired by meeting people from all walks of life. Above: six plaster casts of prostitutes. Vibha Galhotra takes a hard look at how mankind treats the environment. She resorts to the five elements water, earth, fire, air and aether in her works. In Hindu mythology, the latter is known as "Panchabhuta," the basis of all creative powers – including artistic creativity. Mithu Sen requires interaction with her works so they can truly unfold their intentions: a flashlight to read secret messages on acrylic glass, or, in the case of the above artwork, a visitor must bend and twist to find hidden figures and skulls. She calls that interaction process a performance. Tejal Shah discards norms as she created video installations with sex-crazed unicorn people; her work has, as a result, been censored in India. She plays with gender roles. Provocation is a part of her art. The above photo is from a video about sexuality: genderless figures emerge from a garbage dump, seeking to establish contact. Author: Sertan Sanderson (db) But not everyone has hailed the judgment. The Travancore Devasom Board (TDB), which manages the affairs of Sabarimala temple, urged the top court to avoid getting involved into sensitive religious matters. TDB president K Padmakumar says the board will take into account all viewpoints before implementing the court's verdict. "We are disappointed but accept the Supreme Court's verdict on women entry," Kandaru Rajeevaru, the head priest of the temple, told DW. Read more: India scraps controversial tax on sanitary pads Caste dynamics behind sexual violence in India Fight for equality In recent years, rights groups have filed a number of cases against restrictions on women's entrance to places of worship, arguing it is unconstitutional to allow such practices. In 2016, women were allowed to enter Haji Ali mosque in Mumbai. Prior to that, women could only go up to the mazaar (grave) of Sayyed Peer Haji Ali Shah Bukhari, a Muslim saint, but their movement was barred beyond that area. "It is a fight for equality. We want an end to gender bias and demand our constitutional rights. We are happy that our campaign has yielded positive results," Noorjehan Niaz, who was at the forefront of the Haji Ali mosque movement, told DW. Similarly, women gained entry into the famous Shani Shingnapur shrine in the western state of Maharashtra last year, ending the six-decade long tradition. But activists say the battle for gender equality in India has a long a way to go. Many temples in the northern states of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan do not allow women of menstruating age to enter temples. But they hope that the Friday ruling would set a legal precedent that could be applied to all places of worship in India. Read more: #MeToo in India: 'Women's rights need more than just a social media campaign'