Addressing supporters in Kosovo's Banje village by phone on Sunday, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic apologized for not being able to meet them in person.  "I am very sorry I couldn't come because the authorities in Pristina didn't want me to," Vucic told residents of the Serb-populated enclave. A Kosovo police officer told Vucic (left) that he wouldn't be able to continue his trip to Banje Ahead of Vucic's planned visit hundreds of Kosovo Albanians, including 200 Kosovo war veterans, had blocked access to Banje. Some held up placards with messages such as "Vucic does not pass" and "Those who committed genocide against innocent civilians cannot pass." Serbian media also reported gunfire near the area, but that could not be independently verified. 'War injuries still fresh' Reacting to the blockade controversy, President Hashim Thaci wrote Sunday on his Facebook page that he "fully understands" the reaction of Kosovan citizens. The Kosovan president said that the blockade "shows that the pain and war injuries are still fresh," but admitted that as Kosovo and Serbia seek to mend ties, "the protests and road-blocking don't help us." "We should know to rise beyond ourselves, beyond the injuries and manifold pain. We should do this on behalf of peace and reconciliation," he said. 'We won't allow anyone to harass Serbs': Vucic Vucic slammed NATO-led peacekeepers for not clearing the blockade and accused Kosovo Albanian authorities of backing it. "I don't like guns, but we won't allow anyone to harass Serbs in Kosovo," Vucic said. Serbian Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic blamed former Kosovo Liberation Army soldiers for the blockades. Vucic had planned to visit Banje as part of a two-day visit to Serb-dominated areas in Kosovo. The majority of Kosovo's Serbs live in northern areas bordering Serbia. Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia in 2008, almost a decade after the end of the 1998-1999 Kosovo war and NATO airstrikes which drove out Serbian forces and halted the killing of ethnic Albanian civilians. More than 100 countries have since recognized Kosovo as a sovereign state. Read more: Opinion: Redrawing borders in the Balkans is a recurring, bad idea Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/317qT Territory exchange in the works? Vucic was in Kosovo for a two-day visit amid speculation that the two regions were moving toward normalizing relations and talks of a possible territory exchange. On Saturday, Vucic warned it would be difficult for Serbia and Kosovo to mend ties while there is European opposition to changing borders in the Balkans. Vucic said Serbia wants to be on friendly terms with Kosovo — a requirement for EU membership — but does not recognize its 2008 declaration of independence. He had been due to meet with his Kosovo counterpart, Hashim Thaci, but their meeting was abruptly canceled on Friday. "I will do my best [to reach the agreement], but it is a long road full of thorns and problems ahead," Vucic told reporters during a visit to the Gazivoda Lake dam, control of which is a source of controversy between Belgrade and Pristina. The land swap idea has drawn opposition over concerns it would result in demands for similar deals in the volatile region. Vucic must seal an agreement with Pristina to move forward in accession talks with the European Union. Kosovo, on the other hand, hopes recognition from Belgrade would facilitate membership in the United Nations. In the late 1990s, the conflict in Kosovo was escalating as tens of thousands of people fled the region. After all efforts at pacifying the region failed, NATO began carrying out air raids on military bases and strategic targets in Serbia on March 24, 1999. Eleven weeks later, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic finally gave in. In the mid 1980s, protests began in Kosovo against government attempts to curtail the rights of the Albanian majority. The reprisals worsened in the 1990s. Ibrahim Rugova, leader of the political movement in Kosovo since 1989, tried to make Milosevic change course using peaceful resistance - without success. An armed resistance formed in Kosovo. The self-appointed liberation army UCK started a brutal guerrilla war and carried out violent attacks against Serbs and Albanians whom they saw as collaborators. Serbia reacted with retaliatory measures: Houses were torched and shops plundered, as hundreds of thousands fled the region. As time passed, the war became ever more brutal. Serbian forces increasingly attacked civilians with the aim of breaking the UCK's resistance and its support among the population. Many people looked for refuge in the forests. Trains and trucks transport thousands of people to the borders - without passports or other documents which could prove that their home had been in Kosovo. Under the auspices of the US, France, the UK, Russia and Germany, the conflicting parties attended a conference in Rambouillet, France in February 1999 with the aim of working out a limited settlement guaranteeing Kosovo's autonomy. Representatives of Kosovo accepted the conditions of the deal, but their Serbian counterparts were not willing to make any concessions. The negotiations failed. On March 24, 1999, NATO began bombarding military and strategic targets in Serbia and Kosovo in order to stop the violence against Albanians. Germany joined the military action, known as Operation Allied Force. It was NATO's first war in its 50-year history - and that without the official backing of the UN Security Council. Russia sharply condemned the intervention. Next to military installations, NATO also attacked transportation networks such as railroad tracks and bridges. During the following 79 days and nights, the alliance carried out more than 37,000 operations with 20,000 rockets and bombs striking Serbian territory and killing countless civilians - what NATO referred to as "collateral damage." Industrial sites were also among the targets. NATO bombs hit chemical plants and a fertilizer factory in the town of Pancevo near the capital, Belgrade. Huge amounts of toxic substances made their way into rivers, soil and the air, with grave health consequences for the local population. Serbia accused NATO of having used depleted uranium ammunition, as well as cluster and fragmentation bombs. In order to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his most important propaganda tool, NATO decided to attack Serbia's public television station in Belgrade. The Serbian government, although told of the attack in advance, withheld the information from the public. Sixteen people lost their lives in the bombing. In Kosovo, NATO bombs inadvertently hit a group of Albanian refugees, killing an estimated 80 people. More "collateral damage" occurred when NATO bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, killing four people. The incident led to a severe diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington. In early June, communications out of Belgrade showed that Milosevic was finally willing to make concessions. NATO brought an end to its raids on June 19. During the air strikes, thousands of people were killed, 860,000 refugees were displaced and Serbia's economy and infrastructure were largely destroyed. Kosovo was placed under the administration of the United Nations. Author: Sonila Sand / ad shs/cmk (AP, AFP, Reuters)