On Wednesday, US President Donald Trump pressured members of the UN Security Council (UNSC) to work with Washington in supporting a new round of US sanctions on Tehran that are set to take effect on November 4. "I ask all members of the Security Council to work with the United States to ensure the Iranian regime changes its behavior and never acquires a nuclear bomb," Trump said, while adding that the "regime in Tehran" is the "world's leading sponsor of terror." Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump's UN speech makes authoritarians great again Despite Trump's threat that "any individual or entity who fails to comply with these sanctions will face severe consequences," other UNSC members continue to support the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, which lifted sanctions on Iran in exchange for it not developing nuclear weapons. The US backed out of the deal in May, which caused alarm among its European allies. French President Emmanuel Macron and British Prime Minister Theresa May both defended the Iran nuclear deal, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, as the best way of keeping Tehran away from nuclear weapons. Russia and China also strongly back the deal. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35Rma A false victory? Although the Security Council session, which Trump chaired, gave signatories to the nuclear deal a chance to express their support and reject Trump's call for new sanctions on Iran, Tehran's apparent political gain can hardly be seen as a victory with effective consequences. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani welcomed the Security Council's response to Trump and the country's foreign minister tweeted that the US "abused" the UNSC only to find itself "further isolated" on the international stage. "When will it learn its lesson?" the tweet read. Read more: German firms lead exodus out of Iran But despite European political support to keep the deal alive and encourage international companies to continue doing business with Iran, many large firms have already ceased operations. Total, Lukoil, Maersk, Reliance, Dover, Mercedes Benz, VW, Peugeot, Honeywell, Boeing, General Electric and Siemens are some of the major international companies that have left Iran. Iranian citizens are already feeling the impact of international isolation Political gains and empty pockets In Iran, the impact of sanctions is visible in a currency crisis, closed-down factories, rising prices and scarcity of basic goods. Additionally, the country has been experiencing constant political turmoil since January. Public dissatisfaction has increased considerably and trust in the state is at its lowest level, mainly due to unbridled corruption and government inefficiency. Iran desperately needs foreign investment rather than imported commodities. The country also faces a serious banking problem. Read more: Rouhani: Iran citizens 'lost faith in Islamic republic' Tehran has asked the EU to find a solution to keep the nuclear deal alive. However, it seems that apart from their willingness, Europe's leaders do not have the means to persuade big companies and banks to return or stay in Iran. The remaining signatories to the deal - Germany, France, the United Kingdom, China and Russia - announced that they would set up an alternative payment system, known as a "Special Purpose Vehicle" (SPV) to exchange Iranian oil for European goods and bypass US sanctions. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo condemned the move as "one of the most counterproductive measures imaginable for regional and global peace and security." Not enough The White House has assured that these evasive actions will not decrease the impact of sanctions and that Iran will not have a choice other than returning to the negotiating table for a new deal. Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has forbidden any negotiations with the US. Although the US and EU disagree on dismantling the nuclear deal, the EU does want Iran to change its regional policies and stop its ballistic missile program. In other words, the EU, like the US, wants to negotiate on other topics going beyond Iran's nuclear activities. Read more: Siemens turns its back on Iran In this context, a political victory for Iran at the Security Council is not enough to change facts on the ground and affect people's daily lives. Washington's allies, along with China, Russia and the majority of Security Council members, may have rejected Trump's call for sanctions, but in reality, companies, banks and investors do not show any sort of interest in going back to Iran. It seems that the Islamic republic's leadership will not get what they want and need most. US President Trump signed an executive order on August 5 aimed at piling financial pressure on Tehran to force a "comprehensive and lasting solution" to Iranian threats, including its development of missiles and regional "malign" activities. Trump warned that those who don't wind down their economic ties to Iran "risk severe consequences." The first phase, which took effect on August 7, targets the Islamic Republic's access to US banknotes, making transactions in a US-dollar dominated financial world difficult. A ban on Iran purchasing precious metals including gold further serves as an attempt to cut the country off from global markets. Phase one also hits key industries including the purchase of commercial planes, cars and carpets. Iranian imports of graphite, aluminum, steel, coal, gold and some software are also affected. German automaker Daimler called off the production and sale of Mercedes-Benz trucks in Iran indefinitely after the sanctions came into force. A second phase of sanctions — which is due to take effect on November 5 and will block Iran's oil sales — is due to cause more damage. Several countries, however, including China, India and Turkey have indicated they are not willing to entirely cut their Iranian energy purchases. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the United States had launched "psychological warfare" against Iran to create division amongst its people. But he insisted that Iran still can rely on its allies China and Russia to keep its oil and banking sectors afloat. He has also demanded compensation for decades of American "intervention" in the Islamic Republic. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc is encouraging small and medium enterprises to increase their business with Iran. She said Tehran has been compliant with their nuclear-related commitments. The EU issued a "blocking statute" to protect European businesses from the impact of the sanctions. Author: Keith Walker