On Thursday, UEFA are set to announce the country that will host Euro 2024, with Germany and Turkey the candidates. Freedom of expression is believed to be under threat in Turkey following the failed coup attempt in 2016, with some 228,000 people having been arrested during the country’s state of emergency, among them dozens of journalists. Russia, hosts of the 2018 World Cup, faced similar issues and a number of vocal critics in the build up to their tournament. For the first time ever, UEFA has included clauses related to the human rights situation in the hosting country as part of its bidding process. In its announcement, UEFA said the bidding country has to “culturally embed human rights,” as well as “proactively address human rights risks.” The term “human rights” was mentioned 11 times in UEFA’s final evaluation report of both Germany and Turkey, which goes to show the importance of both countries’ record in the field. For comparison, the same report released ahead of Euro 2020 did not contain that term at all. Read more: Could Turkey be the better host nation Everything is ready to go for Euro 2024 Hugh Williamson, a Human Rights Watch (HRW) director, sees that as an “important” development. “It reflects the fact that football does not exist in a vacuum,” he told DW. According to Williamson, human rights issues are “a key aspect determining the nature of the event that takes place.” A tournament in Germany does not carry the same baggage as a tournament in Turkey, or in other countries he says. DFB seek information on bid opponents Ahead of the World Cup, the DFB held two high-ranking meetings with numerous key human rights organizations, including Amnesty International and HRW, with a view to discussing the human rights situation in Russia. The first meeting was in May 2017, with a follow-up meeting taking place in March 2018. DFB President Reinhard Grindel While Russia took center stage in the two meetings, DW has learned that DFB officials also showed interest in being briefed about Turkey. In addition, Williamson said Wenzel Michalski, HWR’s Germany director, offered to brief DFB President Reinhard Grindel about the human rights situation in Turkey. The meetings were initiated by the DFB, which Williamson says is unusual. “The DFB seemed to have learned the public relations benefit of convening these meetings with human rights organizations,” he says. However, some argue that human rights is perhaps a slightly lower priority for the DFB than what the organization tries to portray. Michalski told German outlet Tagesspiegel ahead of the World Cup that he’d have expected the world’s biggest football association to be “more demanding” about human rights issues in Russia. “The DFB know what’s going wrong in Russia, but they hold themselves back with the fear of losing votes (in the Euro 2024 vote) and being punished for the political straightforwardness is big,” Michalski said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35YDF According to Williamson, this is due to the German organization’s way of thinking. “They’re inherently cautious, and they’re unwilling to test the boundaries of their mandate,” the HRW director says, while adding that the DFB could have used its influence within FIFA to make them take a more “active, interventionist” stance on key human rights issues in Russia. The DFB is, according to WIlliamson, “one of the most powerful members of FIFA, if not the most powerful.” DW contacted the DFB for comment on these issues but is yet to receive a reply. “Human rights in crisis in Turkey” Looking forward, both advocacy organizations say they will keep in contact with the DFB in order to raise awareness on various issues. Williamson says his organization urge those making the Euro 2024 decision to keep human rights issues in mind when voting. And while he emphasizes that HRW “does not make recommendations,” Williamson adds that “human rights are in crisis in Turkey.” These views were echoed by DFB President Grindel last year. “An important criteria would be the human rights situation, as well as press freedom and freedom of expression,” he told German outlet FAZ in September 2017. “All of these are a given in Germany.” According to UEFA’s evaluation report, Germany have the clear advantage in these terms. The report says that the DFB’s bid “meets overall expectations” in regards to “political aspects, social responsibility and human rights,” whereas Turkey’s “lack of an action plan in the area of human rights” is mentioned as a concern. While the premium placed by UEFA on that part of the bidding process may not yet be clear, by Thursday the host of Euro 2024 will. Berlin's Olympic Stadium is something of a German Wembley. Originally constructed for the 1936 Olympic Games, it has been the home of current Bundesliga side Hertha Berlin since 1963. The stadium has hosted the final of the German Cup, the DFB Pokal, since 1985 and was also the venue for 2006 World Cup final and 2015 Champions League final. It may look like a UFO has landed next to the motorway in Munich but it is in fact the Allianz Arena, home of German giants Bayern Munich since 2005. Its outer scales light up red when Bayern are at home and white when the German national team plays here. Built for the 2006 World Cup, it also hosted the 2012 Champions League final when Bayern were beaten "at home" by Chelsea. Borussia Dortmund's Signal Iduna Park, still known by many fans as the Westfalenstadion, is the biggest football stadium in Germany with a total capacity of 81,360 - although this is reduced to "only" 65,851 when the terracing is replaced by seats for European and national team games. During the 2006 World Cup, Germany were beaten in the semifinal here by the eventual winners, Italy. Leipzig, the city where the German Football Association was founded in 1900 and home to the first ever German champions, VfB Leipzig, in 1903, is also represented. The new arena was built ahead of the 2006 World Cup inside the bowl of the historic Zentralstadion. In 2010, it was renamed the Red Bull Arena and became the home of the newly-created RB Leipzig. Built on the foundations of the old Müngersdorfer Stadion, Cologne's new stadium was built for the 2006 World Cup. The four corner pillars light up the night sky. FC Köln's home ground is red, with steep seats and generally a full house. It can hold 46,195 fans. In Cologne's greenbelt, the stadium's not far from the DFB's coaching academy. Schalke's home stadium sits atop a hill in the north of Gelsenkirchen. Now named after a beer producer, it can accommodate 54,740 spectators. Its retractable roof can come into play during bad weather. The arena was a World Cup venue in 2006. It is also used to host other events like concerts, and has hosted the World Team Challenge for the skiing and shooting biathlon for years now. This ground, like so many in Germany, has carried a string of sponsors' names in recent years. But now it's back to its original title, that roughly translates as the People's Park Stadium. The new stadium can hold 51,500 tanks to clever remodeling of the original Volksparkstadion, turning its running track into more seating. It's no surprise that the 48,000-capacity stadium in Frankfurt made the cut. Germany's financial capital on the Main river already attracts more than its fair share of foreign visitors, and is also the DFB's hometown. Germany's football association is in the process of building a new headquarters near the stadium. Düsseldorf was perhaps the biggest loser in 2006 when the World Cup slots were doled out. Despite a newly-renovated stadium, the city went empty-handed while local rivals Cologne got the nod. The 51,000-capacity ground is a cauldron inside, although it resembles a giant DIY store from without. It's also a good stadium to hide the odd empty seat, the paint job means the stands always appear full. If you didn't know who helps keep VfB Stuttgart afloat, the ground's name should provide a big enough clue. The state capital of Baden Württemberg is also Germany's automotive hub, home to Mercedes and to Porsche. This was another World Cup 2006 stadium. Indeed, the German "summer fairy tale" concluded when Jürgen Klinsmann and assistant Joachim Löw's team beat Portugal in the third-place playoff. Author: Chuck Penfold, Mark Hallam