"I was terrified of dying soon," says Lisa Midtun. The agonizing fear of being terminally ill, of having leukemia, preyed on her mind constantly. She could barely sleep. Her thoughts constantly revolved around her symptoms, her swollen lymph nodes: "It began when my son was one year old," she remembers. The Norwegian woman was only 20 years old when the hypervigilance of her health began. She kept a constant eye on her body — any perceived change confirmed her worries. Falling seriously ill was no longer a possibility, it was a certainty. She sought confirmation from her family doctor. The physician examined her from head to toe, sent her blood to the laboratory and certified the young mother's impeccable health. But she doubted this conclusion and her consuming fear of illness persisted. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2y5oB A few months, and many doctor's appointments later, her family doctor discovered what Lisa Midtun really suffered from — not leukemia, but illness anxiety disorder, also known as somatic symptom disorder. In the past, the disorder was called hypochondria, the fear of being seriously ill. Labeling people who experience the disorder as "hypochondriacs" is avoided in medical circles these days because "it stigmatizes people like me," says Midtun. But regardless of the label, she urgently needed psychological help, which she was able to access in her hometown of Bergen. Norway's second-largest city is home to Europe's only specialist clinic for sufferers of illness anxiety disorder. The impact of past experiences The small clinic is located on the sixth floor of Haraldsplass Deaconess hospital perched on an idyllic hillside overlooking the city. When the sky is clear, the facility has a picturesque view on one side over the valley in which the city lies; from the other, a view up to the mountains. Fear dominated Midtun's thoughts and everyday life until she began treatment with psychiatrist Dr. Ingvard Wilhelmsen here in 2003. Wilhelmsen, the founder of the clinic, got to the root of her fear. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31Qaa "At the beginning of the therapy I ask patients about their most incisive experiences," says Wilhelmsen. Midtun had experienced illness and loss at an early age. Her mother died when she was six years old. "A week after she being diagnosed with cancer, she was dead," she recalls. As the eldest daughter, Midtun helped raise her siblings and half-siblings with her father, a pilot who she describes as a "very masculine man." The first time his daughter saw him cry was when her mother died. Midtun's fear of illness developed later on with the birth of her first son. At first, she was afraid her newborn might suddenly die. But then her anxiety focused on her own mortality: Sometimes it was headaches, sometimes bruising or fatigue. And her fears continued to grow. "I even bought a medical book," something which today Midtun recognizes as a mistake. Constantly looking up symptoms led her to believe that she was terminally ill. "I wasn't fixated on one disease, but I could always find one that matched my symptoms." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1IGAO A downward spiral She began to spiral into an obsessive pattern of self-diagnoses: Leukemia, cancer of the lymph nodes, a brain tumor, later multiple sclerosis. "I felt like someone was holding a gun to my head and I was just waiting for them to pull the trigger." While most people experience a happy sense of relief when the doctor gives them the all-clear and finds no physical ailment, for Midtun this relief would only last a few hours: "I thought my doctor was the most incompetent doctor in the world." Midtun's husband would try to put her at ease as well, but the effectiveness of his efforts was also only short-lasting. The young woman could not be convinced that nothing was wrong with her. "During the day, I could function. I was able to finish my training to become a teacher. But at night I cried because I thought that I would soon die and my son would be without a mother." Six months after her first visits to the doctor, she began cognitive behavioral therapy. Relationships are the most important overall contributor to happiness. People with strong and broad social relationships are happier, healthier and live longer. Close relationships with family and friends provide love, meaning, support and increase our feelings of self worth. So taking action to strengthen our relationships and create new connections is essential for happiness. Caring about others is fundamental to our happiness. Helping other people is not only good for them and a great thing to do, it also makes us happier and healthier too. Giving also creates stronger connections between people and helps to build a happier society for everyone. And it's not all about money - we can also give our time, ideas and energy. So if you want to feel good, do good! Our body and our mind are connected. Being active makes us happier as well as being good for our physical health. It instantly improves our mood and can even lift us out of a depression. We don't all need to run marathons - there are simple things we can all do to be more active each day. We can also boost our well-being by getting outside and making sure we get enough sleep! Feeling good about the future is important for our happiness. We all need goals to motivate us and these need to be challenging enough to excite us, but also achievable. If we try to attempt the impossible this brings unnecessary stress. Choosing ambitious but realistic goals gives our lives direction and brings a sense of accomplishment and satisfaction when we achieve them. Ever felt there must be more to life? Well good news, there is! We just need to stop and take notice. Learning to be more mindful and aware can do wonders for our well-being in all areas of life - like our walk to work, the way we eat or our relationships. It helps us get in tune with our feelings and stops us dwelling on the past or worrying about the future. So we get more out of the day-to-day. Positive emotions - like joy, gratitude, contentment, inspiration, and pride - are not just great at the time. Recent research shows that regularly experiencing them creates an 'upward spiral', helping to build our resources. So although we need to be realistic about life's ups and downs, it helps to focus on the good aspects of any situation - the glass half full rather than the glass half empty. Learning affects our well-being in lots of positive ways. It exposes us to new ideas and helps us stay curious and engaged. It also gives us a sense of accomplishment and helps boost our self-confidence and resilience. There are many ways to learn new things - not just through formal qualifications. We can share a skill with friends, join a club, learn to sing, play a new sport and so much more. All of us have times of stress, loss, failure or trauma in our lives. But how we respond to these has a big impact on our well-being. We often cannot choose what happens to us, but we can choose our own attitude to what happens. In practice it's not always easy, but one of the most exciting findings from recent research is that resilience, like many other life skills, can be learned. No-one's perfect. But so often we compare our insides to other people's outsides. Dwelling on our flaws - what we're not rather than what we've got - makes it much harder to be happy. Learning to accept ourselves, warts and all, and being kinder to ourselves when things go wrong, increases our enjoyment of life, our resilience and our well-being. It also helps us accept others as they are. People who have meaning and purpose in their lives are happier. They also experience less stress, anxiety and depression. But where do we find 'meaning and purpose'? It might be our religious faith, being a parent or doing a job. The answers vary for each of us but they all involve being connected to something bigger than ourselves. Source of all tips: www.actionforhappiness.org Real or not, symptoms are perceived intensively Midtun immediately felt comfortable with Dr. Wilhelmsen: "He listened to me and took my fears seriously." People with illness anxiety disorder are often considered to be hysterical and attention seekers, according to Wilhelmsen. Almost everyone thinks they know a typical "hypochondriac" who panics at the slightest cough and rushes to the conclusion that they are seriously ill. But this stereotype is a diminishing cliche. The psychiatrist emphasizes how great the burden is for those affected and for those around them: "They are genuinely scared to death," he explains. Some people with the disorder avoid visiting the doctor altogether so as to never receive official confirmation that they are ill, explains Wilhelmsen. This group of sufferers is particularly vulnerable. People with illness anxiety disorder perceive body symptoms intensively and "pay a lot of attention to them," says Wilhelmsen. This in itself is a vicious circle, "because then adrenaline production increases, which means your heart begins to race and you sweat with fear." For those with these symptoms, the cycle of the anxiety is further triggered. "It is the attitude that must change," says illness anxiety disorder expert Ingvard Wilhelmsen Patients are often creative people Yet Midtun, who teaches English and history, has never been afraid of germs or infection: "I never minded working with children at school." The fear only took hold at the thought of serious disease. There is still no clear answer as to why some people develop this disorder and others do not. "Most patients are very creative people," says Wilhelmsen. For the most part, they are persevering and try to keep things under control. "The worry becomes a form of control over something uncontrollable," explains the doctor. Need to accept mortality Since the age of 30, the psychiatrist himself has suffered from the autoimmune disease transverse myelitis, a rare neurological disorder that affects the central nervous system. Today, at 68, the doctor says: "You can't choose whether you're healthy or sick, but you can choose whether or not you believe you're healthy when you actually are. It is the attitude that must change." The health of Germans is at its lowest in history, according to a new report that found just under nine percent of the population follow a 'completely healthy' lifestyle. And the problem is a lack of movement. On average, Germans spend 7.5 hours sitting per day. But it's not just them who are leading sedentary lives - the world over, people are spending too much time perched on their behinds. In recent years, sitting has been dubbed the 'new smoking' because of the seriousness of its public health risks. While not all scientists agree that it should be put in the same category as smoking, over the past 15 years too much time spent on one's backside has been linked to serious health issues, like low blood pressure, poor circulation, cancer, heart disease and diabetes. But sitting in the office chair at work is not as strongly linked to long term health risks as sitting watching television is. Spending too much time in front of the telly has been consistently linked to an early death, type 2 diabetes and heart disease. Women who spend more time sitting down as they age are at higher risk of becoming frail, according to new research from the University of Queensland in Australia. That means they’ll be less likely to recover from illnesses or injuries. But researchers also found the damage could be reversed - so up you hop! It's not too late to reduce the effects of too much time spent on your butt. Scientists say, as your total sitting time increases so does your risk of an early death. But if you sit for less than 30 minutes at a time, you could reduce your risk of kicking the bucket too soon. For every 30 consecutive minutes you sit, try to match it with moving and walking for at least five minutes. For office workers, sitting seems to be an unavoidable part of the day. Unless, of course, you write those emails on your feet. Adjustable desks that allow a sitting and standing option have become standard in many workplaces around the world. But the research shows they aren't the best solution - because even if you're standing, you don't expend much energy while staying in the one spot. Sitting will not undo the benefits of exercise, but the less time you spend sitting down the better. Health experts say it's important for us to move as often as possible, and increase our heartrates in the process - the World Health Organization recommends doing 150 minutes of moderate activity per week or 75 minutes of vigorous activity. Author: Charli Shield "Patients must also accept their mortality," he underlines. Midtun, who recalls how Wilhelmsen told her: "Everyone has a project: Mine was to survive. But nobody lives forever. So my project was doomed to fail from the beginning. I understood that." After recounting to patients his own experience with illness, he says that  "Some [patients] start to laugh: 'Wilhelmsen, that sounds totally sick,' they'll say." But having this kind of conversation provides more than a moment of levity — it serves a therapeutic purpose. His patients quickly realize that many of their thoughts are irrational and that it is impossible to predict the future. "They must dispel this constant doubt which they can only do if they decide not to trust fear any longer." Midtun praises Wilhelmsen's unique approach, saying that the doctor proved "he was so competent throughout the entire therapy." Interpreting symptoms differently The number of people who experience illness anxiety disorder is difficult to measure because many sufferers do not confide in a health professional out of shame. According to various data, one percent of Norwegians suffer from the disorder. In Germany, one in ten is said to be affected. And the trend is rising. More and more people use the internet to pathologize symptoms of illness they may be experiencing. For many, this heightens their fear of disease — a phenomenon called "cyberchondria." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32biI Wilhelmsen treats about 100 patients per year in his clinic. Most get by with only five outpatient sessions. "Ten years later, many of them are still stable," he says. For the psychiatrist, it is crucial that Midtun and other patients have changed their attitude towards health and disease by the end of treatment. Midtun took a sixth session of therapy after the birth of her second son in 2007. "Something came up again," she says. Since then she has learned not to grant so much meaning to her symptoms, and she threw away her medical book. She also stopped searching the internet for diagnoses of her symptoms: "I have sought a new project in life. I concentrate on living now, on my family and on my friends," she says with a smile. "I accept that there are uncertainties in life." For a long time, she didn't confide in her father about her anxieties and the therapy. She did not want to burden him, though Wilhelmsen encouraged her to talk openly about it. Today Midtun is 34 years old and has three sons — and through treatment, she says, she has her life back. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2wGMU