Manuel Neuer — 7 He wasn't required to spring off his line to make a trademark game-saving tackle, but he did resemble the Neuer of old. He held a free kick from Kylian Mbappe and saved two powerful efforts from Antoine Griezmann. Matthias Ginter — 8 A surprise start at right-back, Ginter certainly held his own. He took Blaise Matuidi out of the game and made some vital interceptions. He was a bit slow going forward, but could have scored the winner had Alphonse Areola not made a terrific save. Read more: Five improvements Germany must make Jerome Boateng — 4 Boateng had trouble clearing the ball, handing possession back to France in some dangerous areas. He was able to chase down some of France's quicker players to prevent some chances on the break. Mats Hummels — 7 The Bayern Munich defender made four interceptions and five clearances in the contest. He also had a chance on goal following a counter-attack, but saw his effort saved. Antonio Rüdiger — 2 He did not adjust well to the left-back role and could have been sent off in the first half for stepping on Benjamin Pavard's neck. Mats Hummels, Joshua Kimmich and Matthias Ginter (from left to right) all had strong performances Joshua Kimmich — 8 Despite not playing as a defensive midfielder in more than 18 months, Kimmich showed that he's a pretty handy players in the center of the park. He helped Toni Kroos dictate the play and simultaneously shielded the defense from a very potent French attack. Toni Kroos — 6 He misplaced only a handful of passes, but Kroos was somewhat slow with the ball in the final third. He once again provided spectacular service from corners. Leon Goretzka — 3 After a strong match with Bayern over the weekend, Goretzka was subpar in national team colors. He managed only 25 touches before being replaced by Ilkay Gündogan in the second half. Thomas Müller — 6 He started the game poorly, turning the ball over in great offensive positions. But he had a strong showing in the second half, holding up the ball well and nearly curling an effort from the left wing into the far post. Marco Reus (right) did not play well as Germany's main striker Marco Reus — 2 Largely invisible for most of the game, it was clear that center forward is not one of Reus' better positions. He did manage to fire a shot right at Areola from the top of the penalty area before being replaced by Leroy Sane. Timo Werner — 9 Werner was by far Germany's most active player and was the only one who possessed any creativity. Both of his shots came from tight angles, but he was a handful for France's defense. Substitutes Ilkay Gündogan — 7 He was a spark off the bench and helped Germany command the midfield in the second half. Leroy Sane — 5 He hit the ground running after replacing Reus, but was over exuberant when on the ball and turned possession over in a crucial area while trying to nutmeg Samuel Umtiti.