A man smashed his car into security barriers at two airports serving the French city of Lyon on Monday, as he was being pursued by police. Police said they began chasing a white Mercedes when it was spotted speeding the wrong way down the A43 highway that links Lyon to the Alps. Highway police and a police helicopter started a pursuit, the regional government said in a statement. The driver first smashed through a security barrier at the Lyon-Bron business airport before changing direction and heading to Lyon's main Saint-Exupery airport, about 20 kilometers (12.5 miles) away. There, he rammed into automatic glass doors near the main entrance to Terminal 1 and drove through the building. He smashed through another set of doors before emerging onto the runway, chased by about a dozen police vehicles as well as a helicopter. An amateur video posted online showed the car smashing into the building with a bang and showed the view afterward of the smashed doors on either side. It shows the car hitting a bump at one point, being lifted off the ground by the impact and then landing in a cloud of dust. After continuing for a few meters the driver then abandons the car while it is still moving and attempts to flee on foot. He manages to dodge several police cars before being wrestled to the ground by officers. It was not clear whether the man was armed. Man tries to elude police on runway at Lyon airport There were no injuries in the incident, which led to the suspension of all flights in and out of Lyon Saint-Exupery airport, France's third largest. A police source said the man's motives were unknown and regional security authorities said Lyon prosecutors had opened an inquiry. The airport's operator said a Twitter that after an "incident" air traffic had been suspended until further notice. The man's motives were not known initially, according to regional government press officer Christelle Monteagudo. av/rc (AFP, dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.