Gonorrhea is one of the most common venereal diseases in the world. In Germany, the number of infections has increased significantly in recent years, and that number is still rising. "We must assume that we have around 25,000 new gonococcal infections per year," said Norbert Brockmeyer of the WIR Center for Sexual Health and Medicine in Bochum. "This is what we're seeing in all the relevant centers. In our center, there are days when we treat five or six patients for gonorrhea." Since 2000, it has no longer been compulsory to register cases of gonorrhea in Germany, except in the state of Saxony. It was thought that the classic venereal disease was under control and had effectively been eradicated. This has proved incorrect. "All sexually transmitted diseases — not only gonorrhea — are celebrating an undreamt-of comeback," said Brockmeyer. The WIR center tries to inform people as comprehensively as it can, warning them of unprotected sex and promoting condom use. Condoms significantly reduce the risk of infection, but they don't provide total protection. The gonococcus bacterium — not as harmless as it looks Discharge, itching and infertility The symptoms of gonorrhea — also known as "the clap" — are usually very unpleasant. Among others, they include discharge from the vagina or urethra. "This is not a clear discharge, it is suppurating," explained Brockmeyer. "In men, drops leave the urethra, especially in the morning — so-called morning drops. This is because secretions and pus have gathered in the night and then are discharged in the morning in thick drops." Gonorrhea is a bacterial inflammation caused by the bacterium gonococcus. The body's response is to produce an army of leucocytes, or white blood cells, creating a yellowish fluid. In addition to this discharge, infected people can also experience pain when passing urine. Gonorrhea is transmitted during sex, and it's usually the genitals that are affected. Intense itching and pain can be the first indications of possible infection. Many people, however, notice nothing at all. This is true in around 70 percent of infections. The anal area and even the mouth and throat can also be infected by gonococci, for example through unprotected oral sex. The pathogens are extremely virulent and people can become infected very quickly. "The gonococci have often been transmitted before someone even picks up a condsyphiom; they've infected themselves through other sexual practices" such as foreplay, said Brockmeyer. "If you get vaginal fluid on your hands, you can catch gonorrhea." In a worst-case scenario, gonorrhea can lead to infertility in both women and men. If the condition is not treated immediately and is allowed to spread, it can lead to inflammation of the lesser pelvis and subsequently to a blockage of the fallopian tubes in women, which can mean infertility. In men it can have the same effect on the seminal ducts and testes. If a pregnant woman becomes infected with gonorrhea, there is a danger the infection may be transmitted to the unborn child, which can result in miscarriage or stillbirth. In babies, the eyes in particular are affected. Newborns develop symptoms just a few days after birth, including swollen eyelids and light sensitivity. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/327bf Resistant strains increasingly common For a long time antibiotics were the treatment of choice for gonorrhea in adults and newborns, but now there's a need to develop new medicines. "We already have significant resistance rates with gonorrhea," said Brockmeyer. "The result is that the medicines don't work." In extreme cases, that means a simple case of gonorrhea can no longer be properly treated. The German Sexually Transmitted Infections Society is banking on a combination of the development of effective therapies and good prophylaxis. It wants to see the acronym STI — sexually transmitted infections — become as firmly anchored in the public consciousness as the letters HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). The number of people living with HIV in Germany has increased relatively slowly in recent years, partly as a result of repeated information campaigns. Germany has the lowest infection rate in the word, said Brockmeyer. "In the past few years we've focused specifically on HIV. Meanwhile, though, there are more and more campaigns tackling old, well-known diseases like gonorrhea and syphilis." Most people know what HIV and AIDS are. It's a different scenario with the classic venereal diseases. Many people don't really understand which infections come under this heading, or what the different terms actually mean: chlamydia, for example, or hepatitis B; genital herpes; the human papillomavirus (HPV); or indeed syphilis and gonorrhea. The risk of becoming infected with HIV is also considerably higher if you've already been infected with one of the classic STIs. A random sampling of one of the many posts on an internet forum about gonorrhea highlights the long-standing prejudices that are still prevalent: "I'd actually only ever heard of gonorrhea in the context of rich business people who'd gone on holiday to Asia and then infected their partners." You don't have to be rich, and you don't need to travel to Asia, to catch gonorrhea. It can happen anywhere — including at home. The drama "120 BPM" is the latest film to take on the illness. Directed by Robin Campillo, the movie tells the love story of two young AIDS activists. It won the Grand Prix jury prize at Cannes last year. Above all, French and American productions took up the subject of HIV and AIDS early on. "Longtime Companion" by Norman René is considered the very first to have described the disease as it tells the stories of eight gay middle-class men who are friends in the early '80s. That's when the illness first appeared and began ravishing the community, the impact of which is at the heart of the film. The French director and lead actor in "Savage Nights," Cyrill Collard, likewise takes up the topic of repression of AIDS when he brought his autobiographically influenced novel of the same name to life. In the film version, Collard plays a bisexual who does not take his life or that of his partners into consideration. He died in 1993, just one year after its release. Jonathan Demme's film "Philadelphia" was the first major Hollywood production that brought AIDS to the big screen for a wide audience. In it, Tom Hanks plays a lawyer who is let go from his job due to his illness. He takes his former employer to court in a melodramatic and sentimental film that is very effectively staged. With the Oscar-winning film, AIDS was finally recognized by Hollywood. Whereas "Philadelphia" was a true Hollywood production, "And the Band Played On," released that same year, took a quieter, nearly documentary approach to the AIDS epidemic. Starring Matthew Modine as the young AIDS researcher Dr. Don Francis, the film by Roger Spottiswoode attempted to tell the tale of those infected by including numerous stories. Two years later, director Larry Clark put out the teenage drama "Kids," a fictional narrative with a documentary feel. The director highlighted the youth culture in New York in the mid-90s, where sex is on the minds of young boys and girls alike while AIDS lurks in the background. The scenes are drastic and with actors not yet of age, the film created quite a controversy after its release. What appears to be a standard Pedro Almodóvar film, "All About My Mother," released by the Spanish director in 1999, takes on the lives, loves and sorrows of a handful of protagonists. Set in Madrid and Barcelona, the melodrama addresses gender roles and society's prejudices, with AIDS playing a central role in the film. "The Witnesses" is French director André Téchiné's look back to the 1980s, when the AIDS crisis first came into focus. The movie follows several characters as it shows the disease and its impact on their lives at all stages. The movie was celebrated at the Berlinale for its handling of the AIDS epidemic but wasn't able to make the leap into German theaters, despite stars like Emmanuelle Béart. Germany has likewise tackled AIDS as a film subject. Rosa von Praunheim was the first, with his typically anarchistic approach in "A Virus Knows No Morals" in 1986. In 2009, director Detlef Buck took a more worldly view on the global crisis, with "Same Same But Different," which follows the love story between a young German man (David Kross, seen above) and a Cambodia prostitute. "Dallas Buyers Club" by Canadian director Jean-Marc Vallée was widely acclaimed upon its release three years ago. Matthew McConaughey (r.) and Jared Leto are brilliant as two people living with HIV in the 1980s, who are trying to get their hands on the AIDS medications that could prolong their lives. Both actors won nods from the Academy for their roles. Author: Jochen Kürten (ct) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.