For many years now, the EU's Africa policy has been a graveyard of big words, good intentions and unfulfilled promises. However, since the refugee crisis interest in a new strategy for cooperation with the continent has increased sharply.  The Europeans have stood by and watched as China established itself in Africa, investing billions in the continent. EU states fear they will find themselves relegated to the second league. This is why, in his speech this week on the state of the EU, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker once again announced "a new pact with Africa." Read more: Jean-Claude Juncker calls for EU to be a global player More investment, more work, more training In the next budget period the EU plans to increase funding to Africa to €40 billion ($46.5 billion). The hope is that this money will then be multiplied by private investors. As an incentive, the EU wants to provide risk guarantees to encourage the private sector to make the commitment and invest in African countries. At the same time, Brussels is increasingly seeking cooperation with the development banks of the EU member states and with the European Investment Bank (EIB), which are integrated into the program. The EIB, for example, is already providing €6 billion to 2020 to tackle the causes of migration and flight, and it's hoped this will trigger a further investment of around €35 billion. The emphasis here is on education and jobs. Over the next five years the Alliance for Africa wants to create 10 million jobs; 750,000 people are to receive vocational training, with a further 100,000 students benefiting from the Erasmus exchange program. The European Commission also plans big investments in transport, road infrastructure and energy. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34Zwb 'Next step is to be true economic partners' When asked whether this wasn't just another reiteration of the EU's good intentions, Neven Mimica, the EU commissioner for international cooperation and development, explained that the plans currently being put forward represent a new approach. "Until now there wasn't a coherent economic strategy," he said. Now, though, the EU wants to define — in partnership and cooperation with African countries —the best opportunities for development in each nation, and how the private sector can be incorporated into the relevant projects. The European Commission gave an example of this tailor-made support. With the support of the Dutch development bank FMO, microcredits are being given to internally displaced people, returnees and small businesses in sub-Saharan countries. This is intended to generate several hundred thousand jobs, from an initial capital of €75 million. "We are already strong political partners," said Federica Mogherini, the EU's chief diplomat. "The next step is to be true economic partners and deepen our trade and investment relationship." Unequal trade? The EU is still Africa's biggest trading partner, accounting for 36 percent of all exports, ahead of China and the US. The aim of the European Commission is to intensify this cooperation and put it on a new contractual basis. There are already partnership agreements with 52 African countries, meaning that many goods — everything except weapons — are generally exempt from customs duty. As a next step, Europe is aiming for a comprehensive free trade agreement between the EU and Africa. But this would also mean African partners would have to dismantle the majority of their customs barriers. African countries should, however, be allowed to retain some of their import duties in order to protect their domestic agricultural industry. Critics have pointed out that the principle of fair exchange has already met with trouble, because European products are forcing their way onto African markets at prices that are far too low. And if farmers in Europe are hurt by low prices, they at least get compensation in the form of direct payments from the EU. For small-scale farmers in Africa, their entire livelihood may be jeopardized. NGOs have warned there cannot be the same rules for trade between rich and poor countries. As one of the most important countries in West Africa, Nigeria has until now refused to sign a partnership agreement with the EU. The balance of interests in this field is more complicated in individual cases than one might suspect, given the EU's grand announcements. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticized by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart Demographic challenge European politicians have reacted with alarm to demographic projections that see Africa's population surpassing 2 billion by 2050. Leaders like France's Emmanuel Macron and Germany's Angela Merkel have been tirelessly visiting African nations to promote economic cooperation and development, spurred on by the prospect of increasing numbers of African migrants potentially seeking a better future in Europe. Mogherini has said "the young people in Africa are not a burden, they are an opportunity" for the continent, though she hasn't denied that rapid population growth will be a challenge. What has gone unsaid, at least officially, is that a doubling of Africa's population in the next few decades will rapidly absorb any development progress, leaving even the most colossal international investment plan scrambling to catch up. And comments like those by Tanzanian President John Magufuli, who recently called on the women of his country to abandon contraception and produce more babies, may well have provoked even more concern among European politicians and given rise to fresh doubts about the responsibility of some African rulers. Readmission agreements for African migrants, which play a role in all of the EU's negotiations, are also progressing slowly. The money that migrants send home to their families from Europe is currently more important than investment pledges from the north; pledges which will only pay out in the future. Official statements from the EU have also carefully avoided topics like corruption insecurity, so as not to create political resistance. The hope is that private investors will not be put off, and instead will see the promise of Africa's economic possibilities and allow guarantees from the EU and development banks to calm their nerves. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.