Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro met with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Friday in an attempt to secure help from Beijing for his economically-stricken country. China is Venezuela's main creditor and is "willing to provide whatever help it can offer," Chinese Premier Li Keqiang reportedly promised. 'Big sister' Read more: 5 things to understand about oil-rich, cash-poor Venezuela 'Mao's Struggle' "We began our state visit to the People's Republic of China, paying tribute to its founder, the Great Helmsman, Mao Tse Tung," tweeted Maduro. "His example and revolutionary struggle marked the twentieth century." Xi told Maduro that China supports the Venezuelan government's "efforts to seek a stable national development," according to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV. "China is willing to strengthen exchanges of experience in governing the country and politics with Venezuela," Xi said. Hyperinflation: Venezuela has been in a huge recession since Maduro succeeded the late president, Hugo Chavez, in 2013. It has been hit with widespread food shortages, long lines for basic necessities, price hikes and high crime rates. Hundreds of thousands of people have fled to neighboring countries and Spain. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34bEK Reforms: Maduro has recently announced a raft of economic measures aimed at bolstering the tanking economy, including a new currency, a 3,000 percent increase in the minimum wage and tax hikes. However, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projected Venezuela's inflation rate will hit one million percent by the end of the year. You will need to shell out a whopping 14.6 million bolivars ($2.2, €1.9) for a 2.4 kilogram chicken in Caracas. A kilogram of tomato will set you back by 5 million bolivars. Be ready to pay 2.6 million bolivars for a toilet paper roll in the Venezuelan capital, Caracas. Yes, you read it right. Three-and-a-half millions — that's how much you will have to pay for a packet of sanitary pads in Caracas. One kilogram rice? Well, that will cost you 2.5 million bolivars. A packet of diapers for your baby can you set you back by a staggering 8 million bolivars. You will have to cough up 7,500,000 bolivars for a kilogram of cheese. But hold on, that may change with the Venezuelan government set to issue new paper money with five fewer zeros. So, just 75 bolivars for a kilogram of cheese. Author: Ashutosh Pandey kw/rt (AFP; Reuters, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.