Macedonians were heading to polling stations on Sunday to decide on a long-standing dispute with Greece over the name of their country. The Skopje goverment aims to change the name of the Balkan state, currently known as the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, to North Macedonia. Greece has accused its northern neighbor of stealing the historic legacy – and even territory – of its northernmost province, also called Macedonia. The rift has resulted in Greece's blocking Macedonia from joining NATO and the EU. On Sunday, voters must decide whether they are in favor of possible NATO and European Union memberships as a result of a deal struck in June between their government and Greece. Opponents in Macedonia, including the country's president, Gjorge Ivanov, called for a boycott of the Sunday vote, calling the deal "poisonous" and a "flagrant violation of sovereignty." The turnout topped 29 percent by 5:40 p. m. local time (1540 GMT) according to the nation's electoral authority. Read more: Macedonia name change could be a game changer Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35YXe Support for 'Yes' campaign The referendum is non-binding and was not mandatory as part of the agreement made by Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev and his Greek counterpart, Alexis Tsipras. However, a majority "Yes" would be considered a reflection of public opinion and allow the government to proceed with the name change. Officially, the Macedonian parliament needs a two-thirds majority to approve certain constitutional changes, which would subsequently allow Greece to ratify the bilateral agreement. Prime Minister Zaev believes that the deal would lead to the membership in NATO and the EU, boosting economic growth in the impoverished country. "Today is a beautiful day, a beautiful holiday for the country. Today the citizens are going out to decide on their future," he told the press after casting his ballot. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zSwC Vote of expediency Not many Macedonians share his enthusiam, but some say they will go along with the name change for the sake of the country's membership in international alliances. One such voter, 28-year-old Abedin Memeti, told the Agence France-Presse (AFP) news agency ahead of the vote: "We cannot really say it is fair, but the EU and NATO matter more for all of us, so let's move forward.". The Macedonian referendum has stirred much interest across Europe, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently heading to Skopje to urge Macedonians to vote 'Yes.' Moscow is reportedly against NATO's expansion, with US Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis saying there was "no doubt" Russia funded the "No" campaign in Macedonia. Read more: Macedonia: What's in a name? Should voters approve the name change to North Macedonia in Sunday's referendum, it could pave the way for the country to join NATO and the European Union. Previous talks stalled due to a veto by the Greek government in 2009. Over the years, ethnic conflicts have been rife in Macedonia as a large part if its population consists of Albanian and Turkish minorities. The name deal would end one of the country's long-running conflicts with Greece. Macedonia's previous government rebuilt the main square of its capital, Skopje, with an emphasis on history. It claimed its population were direct descendants of Alexander the Great. Greece has accused its neighboring country of trying to steal its history and identity. The proposed name change has triggered protests in both countries, with Macedonian nationalists calling it an assault on the country's identity. The protests were often led by far-right organizations both in Macedonia and Greece. The Macedonian far-right group MHRMI (Macedonian Human Rights Movement International) put up billboards along a central street in Gevgelija, a town near the border with Greece. Macedonia's new archaeological museum was part of Skopje 2014, a project aimed at lending a more classical appeal to the country's capital. Former populist leader Nikola Gruevski and his government oversaw Skopje 2014, which saw hundreds of pseudo-historical monuments and baroque buildings erected throughout the capital. Widespread protests took place in Greece before, during and after the negotiations to change Macedonia's name. They were often led by the far right but there were also protesters from across the political and social spectrum. Extreme right-wing protesters clashed with riot police in the Greek city of Thessaloniki during protests against the deal on September 8, 2018. Author: Dimitris Tosidis shs/kms (AP, dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.