Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Thursday accused the United States of undermining the two-state solution through its decisions to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital and withdraw aid funding for the Palestinians. "With all of these decisions, this administration has reneged on all previous US commitments, and has undermined the two-state solution," Abbas said in his address to the annual gathering of world leaders at the United Nations. While the US may have cut its funding for the Palestinian territories, other countries have stepped in to narrow the funding gap for this year to $68 million (€101 million). Pledges totalling $118 million from Germany, the EU, Kuwait, Ireland and Norway were made on the sidelines of the UN meeting on Thursday to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). Abbas' call to Trump "I renew my call to President [Donald] Trump to rescind his decisions and decrees regarding Jerusalem, refugees and settlements," said Abbas, who began his speech by saying "Jerusalem is not for sale and Palestinians' rights are not up for bargaining." The Palestinian government halted ties with Trump's administration in December following the Jerusalem decision that angered Palestinians who regard the eastern sector of Jerusalem — which Israel annexed in the1967 Middle East war — as the capital of a future Palestine state. 'Biased' mediator Abbas' attack on Trump came after the US president said he favored a two-state solution to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Trump said he would unveil a new Middle East peace plan within months. The Palestinian leader said Trump has been "biased" towards Israel since coming to power and added that he could not be regarded as a neutral mediator in the peace process. "We will also not accept sole American mediation in the peace process," Abbas said. The last Israeli-Palestinian peace talks collapsed in 2014, but Trump has said he can secure the "ultimate deal" and tasked Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with brokering an agreement. "It's really ironic that the American administration still talks about what they talk call the 'deal of the century,' Abbas said. "What is left for this administration to give to the Palestinian people? What is left as a political solution?" Read more: Israel at 70: What does the future hold? Israel criticizes speech Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who spoke shortly after Abbas, said he was not surprised by Trump's initial comments on the two-state solution. He mainly targeted Iran during his speech. Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman criticized Abbas' speech. "Instead of responding to the outstretched hand of Israel and the United States, the only thing that interests [him] is to settle scores and drive the region toward confrontation." ap/sms (AP, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Back in 1995, the US Congress passed the so-called Jerusalem Embassy Act, declaring that Jerusalem "should be recognized as the capital of the State of Israel." The act, however, also allowed the sitting president to delay the move by signing a waiver every six months. Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama all reissued the waiver throughout their presidencies, citing security concerns. During the 2016 US presidential campaign, Republican candidate Donald Trump promised that, if elected, he would relocate the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, describing the holy city as "the eternal capital of the Jewish people." Trump's declaration attracted a great deal of fervor within Israel and won over scores of Jewish and Evangelical voters in the US. In May 2017, Trump became the first sitting US president to visit the Western Wall. The site is located in Jerusalem's Old City, which Israel forces captured during the 1967 Six-Day War. According to reports, Trump considered fulfilling his Jerusalem pledge during the visit, but was advised against such a move by foreign policy officials who feared it would only stoke regional tensions. During a speech at the White House on December 6, 2017, Trump said he had "determined it is time to officially recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel," adding that the move was a "recognition of reality." Trump cited the Jerusalem Embassy Act as one of the reasons behind his decision. "While previous presidents have made this a major campaign promise, they failed to deliver," he said. Following Trump's announcement, thousands of Muslims worldwide participated in demonstrations protesting his controversial decision. Protesters marched in the streets, burned flags and shouted anti-Israel slogans in countries including Iraq, Turkey, Egypt, Malaysia, Indonesia and Indian-controlled Kashmir. The protests soon reached Europe. In Germany, on December 8, 2017, mostly Muslim demonstrators attended a rally near the US embassy at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate, waving Palestinian flags. The German government was among those warning against Trump's move. On December 21, 2017, an emergency session of the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution condemning US President Donald Trump's decision to name Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. A total of 128 countries voted in favor of the measure, while nine voted against it and 35 countries abstained. The vote came after the US vetoed a UN Security Council resolution on Jerusalem. On February 23, the US State Department said it would hasten the relocation of the embassy to Jerusalem. "The opening will coincide with Israel's 70th anniversary," State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said. The anniversary falls on May 14. During a visit to Jerusalem in January, US Vice President Mike Pence had said he did not expect the move to be complete before the end of 2019. On May 7, Israeli authorities put up the first road signs pointing to the US embassy in Jerusalem. The signs were put up on the southern side of the city by the US consulate. Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat hung the first sign. In a statement, he said: "This is not a dream, it's reality. Jerusalem is the eternal capital of the Jewish people, and the world is beginning to recognize this fact." Author: David Martin