The 185th Oktoberfest has begun in the Bavarian capital, Munich, with Mayor Dieter Reiter managing once more to open the first keg of beer with just two blows of the hammer at the opening ceremony. The first glass of beer, traditionally reserved for the state's premier, went to Markus Söder, who is attending the fabled event for the first time in the capacity. Söder and Reiter were the first to get their beers Other guests at the Oktoberfest will be paying up to €11.50 ($13.53) for a liter (2.1 pints) of the amber fluid that will flow freely over the next two weeks into the throats of an expected 6 million guests from all over the world. Read more: Oktoberfest reveals its official 2018 beer mug Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/359Bd Heightened security Some 600 police officers and several hundred security personnel are on hand amid concerns of possible terrorist attacks. The Theresienwiese, where the Oktoberfest takes place, is now surrounded by fences and visitors are no longer allowed to carry rucksacks into the area. The increased security costs are one factor driving the higher price of beer at the festival. The festival, which has been held since 1810, will end on October 7. Having a beer in a tent is a must for every Wiesn visitor. Once you're inside, you'll be carried away by the music and the fun. People sway and dance. The rule is quite clear: on benches yes, on tables no. Whoever tries to dance on a table risks being ordered out. And it would be a shame if the first visit to the Oktoberfest ended like this. So better to dance one floor down, on the bench. A beer tent is not a beer garden! And that's why you are not allowed to bring your own food. Those who do are quickly thrown out. Usually there are beer gardens in front of the tents. There you can enjoy your snack without upsetting anyone. Anyone who drinks needs a good base. Hendl, in other words chicken, are the perfect choice: Crispy, greasy and easy to eat with your fingers. To prevent beer mugs from slipping out of your hands after the meal, wipes are included. Konga, Skyfall, Tobbago or swing carousel - they serve only one purpose: big fun. But wait a minute: every Oktoberfest visitor should consider the order of their Wiesn activities. Our recommendation: First roller coaster and then chicken and beer. Otherwise centrifugal forces might have devastating effects on the stomach. BBavarian traditional attire is clever. If you know how to wear it, you can clearly inform your surroundings that you are already "taken" or that you would like to "shop around". A bow tied to the right means: yes, I already have a boyfriend. The loop on the left means: I would like to get to know someone. Drinking beer on the Wiesn is a sports activity, especially for the upper arms. The beer is served in beer mugs. A liter of beer requires some stemming. But it has to be done correctly: Only grasp the handle, not the whole jug. Nothing for weak wrists! The people in the photo obviously still have to practice a little more. To be tipsy is great, and very much part of the Wiesn-fun. But binge drinking is simply ugly. People who stumble over the Oktoberfest drunk and who empty their stomach contents into the crowd - spoil the fun for themselves and others. Rule of thumb: only drink so much that you can still remember the Wiesn afterwards. At some point the beer will want out again. Discouraged by the long queues in front of the public toilets, many may be tempted into taking a shortcut and urinate behind the tents. NO! You wouldn't do that at home either, would you? If caught, you have to pay a fine of up to 100 euro. So it's better to make your way to the next toilet in good time. There are no charges for the Wiesn toilets. Admittedly, it is a coveted souvenir. And some people think I'll just take the jug with me. Every year thousands of beer mugs disappear. Not a good idea: Stealing a beer mug is theft. And that means a fine! So it's better to buy one. It's marked with a colorful plaque - identifying it as an honestly acquired beer mug. A table like this in the beer tents is in great demand. The large tents have to close regularly due to overcrowding, especially on weekends, that's how crowded they are. Nevertheless: Do not ever take a bench and keep it free for friends. Service personnel and stewards will quickly ensure that the free seats are distributed. Taking pictures of ladies in a party mood is okay. It's not okay to photograph women who at an advanced hour spontaneously take their tops off. They are called Blankzieherinnen. Stripping is not a problem, photographing is. It is assumed that the ladies won't care much for their Wiesn striptease going around the world on the net. What happens in the tent stays in the tent. And that's it. Author: Anne Termèche (sbc) tj/jlw (dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.