The Islamabad High Court on Wednesday suspended the 10-year jail sentence for Nawaz Sharif and the 7-year sentence for his daughter Maryam Nawaz. On July 6, an accountability court in Islamabad found ex-Prime Minister Sharif and his family guilty of corruption in the Panama Papers case, and sentenced Sharif to 10 years in prison. The Avenfield case, which is linked to the Panama Papers scandal, pertains to the purchase of four apartments in London. It was filed against Sharif and his family by the National Accountability Bureau (NAB). Sharif's lawyers had challenged the sentences in the Islamabad court. "For reasons to be recorded later on, the petition of Nawaz Sharif, Maryam Nawaz and Mohammad Safdar [Sharif's son-in-law] are allowed," said Justice Athar Minallah. The Sharifs' convictions are still under appeal, but Sharif, Maryam and Safdar will be released from jail after completing legal formalities. Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N) party maintains that the corruption charges against the former premier are politically motivated and his jail sentence was part of a "scheme" to defeat him in the July 25 elections. Read more: Pakistan election: 'Military does not want Sharif's party to win another term' "Justice has been served and I congratulate Nawaz Sharif's supporters," former foreign minister Khawaja Asif, a Sharif aide, said outside the courtroom where Sharif's supporters were seen celebrating his release on bail. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31RdC Legal hurdles remain for Sharif Although the Sharifs have received relief from the court, their legal woes are unlikely to end any time soon. "The Sharifs' conviction is still there, and today's verdict is just a suspension. Sharif is still a criminal," Faisal Javed, a senator from the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party, told DW. "The are more cases pending in the accountability court. It is just a temporary relief," Javed added. Abid Hasan Manto, an ex-president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, told DW Sharif still has to face trials. But some legal experts say the accountability court's verdict against Sharif is weak, and that it is only a matter of time before a higher court will strike it down. "During the appeal hearing against Sharif's conviction, the NAB couldn't satisfy the Islamabad High Court and changed its prosecutor three times," Muneeb Farooq, a legal expert and analyst, told DW. Read more: Opinion: Pakistan needs ex-PM Sharif's political role now more than ever An attempt to sideline Sharif? But Ahsan Iqbal, a Sharif aid, told reporters outside the Islamabad High Court that Sharif's sentencing was a "revenge verdict" against the former premier. "It was part of the pre-poll rigging. It was meant to keep Sharif from out of the election race and pave the way for Imran Khan's victory in the polls," Iqbal said. Cricketer-turned politician Khan, who was inaugurated as prime minister last month, won the July 25 general election and secured most seats in parliament. Sharif's party came second. "Sharif was convicted on assumptions, but this affected [his party's performance in] the election. It can't be reversed now," Talal Chaudhary, a former minister in Sharif's government, told DW. Read more: Opinion: Imran Khan's dangerous victory Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31RdC Many analysts and rights groups pointed to a systematic crackdown on Sharif's PML-N party and independent media ahead of the vote as proof of "pre-election rigging." Three-time PM Sharif never completed a term as prime minister, having been removed during his second term by a military coup by General Pervez Musharraf in 1999. Some analysts say the verdict against Sharif, who remains popular among the Pakistani electorate, gave the Pakistani military more behind-the-scenes influence. The powerful military has ruled the South Asian country for nearly half of its history. Political observers also say that the army leadership had become very skeptical of Sharif due to his repeated attempts to improve ties with India and enhance trade between the two South Asian nuclear-armed archrivals. Also, a strong civilian government has always been a threat to the military's unchecked power, they say. Read more: Why ousted Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif turned against the powerful military Problems for PM Khan Sharif's release, even temporarily, has the potential to create a political storm in Pakistan. The South Asian country's new PM, Khan, is still in the process of settling in. Sharif's bail may reinvigorate the former PM's supporters and will also strengthen the narrative that the cases against him are politically motivated. "Sharif can create problems for Khan. The incumbent premier is responsible for Sharif's ouster, so I think the former prime minster will try to make things difficult for Khan," Amjad Shoaib, a retired military official, told DW. "Sharif will try to unite the opposition against Khan. He is likely to hold public rallies and demonstrations. He is also free to speak against the [military] establishment," Shoaib said, adding that the NAB should have dealt with Sharif's appeal in the high court in a better way. Additional reporting by Sattar Khan and Haroon Janjua, DW's correspondents in Islamabad. Imran Khan was born in Lahore in 1952, the son of a civil engineer. Khan grew up with his four sisters in a relatively affluent part of the city. He received a privileged education, first in his hometown and then in Worcester, England. It was there that Khan's love and talent for the game of cricket became evident. In 1972, he enrolled at Oxford University to study politics and economics. Khan played cricket throughout his time in England and after returning to his native Pakistan in 1976, he quickly became a regular in the national team. By 1982, he was awarded the captain's armband. Khan enjoyed an illustrious career and was regarded by many as one of the best all-rounders in the world. The ultimate high point of Khan's sporting career saw him captain Pakistan to the 1992 Cricket World Cup in Melbourne, Australia. As if his popularity couldn't get any bigger back home, Khan even took the winning wicket in the final against England. Khan enjoyed hedonistic bachelor life and was a regular fixture on London's nightlife scene. However, in 1995, at age 42, he finally tied the knot to 21-year-old Jemima Goldsmith. During their nine-year marriage, the famous couple provided plenty of fodder for the British and Pakistani tabloids. Despite separating in 2004, Goldsmith has remained a vocal supporter of Khan's politics. Khan wasted little time after retiring from cricket in 1994. Just two years later he entered Pakistani politics and founded the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. However, his popularity was slow to carry over from cricket into politics. In the 1997 general elections, his PTI party failed to win a single seat. Khan remained active in politics over the next decades. In 1999, he supported General Pervez Musharraf's military coup, only to later turn against Musharraf ahead of the 2007 presidential election. Khan was subsequently placed under house arrest and even spent a few days in prison. However, his supporter base continued to grow, and by 2013 he became a key candidate in the general elections. The PTI made substantial gains in the 2013 election, claiming 30 parliamentary seats and finishing second behind the Pakistan Muslim League. The party became the main opposition in the key provinces of Punjab and Sindh. However, its greatest feat was winning its first province in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Khan has often been the butt of jokes for his pacifist stance towards terrorism in the region. He earned the moniker "Taliban Khan" for claiming that the only way to achieve peace with the Taliban in neighboring Afghanistan was through negotiation. Khan was also a vocal critic of US drones strikes on Pakistan and has promised to disengage Pakistan from America's conflicts in the Middle East. Since his divorce from Goldsmith in 2004, Khan has remarried twice. In January 2015, Khan announced his marriage to British-Pakistani journalist Reham Khanm although just 10 months later the couple said they were filing for divorce. In February 2018, Khan married his third wife, Bushra Manika (pictured front row, second from the left), whom he describes as his spiritual adviser. By 2018, Khan's PTI were among the favorites going into the general election. Campaigning on a populist platform, Khan pledged to break away from Pakistan's corrupt legacy. His plans include a poverty reduction program similar to that seen in China. This would see the establishment of an "Islamic welfare state," the creation of 10 million jobs and construction of 5 million homes for the poor. Khan completed his journey from all-star cricketer to political leader on July 26, 2018. With most votes counted, the PTI is expected win up to 119 seats in Pakistan's 272-seat parliament. "I started this struggle 22 years ago and today I have been given a chance to fulfill what I dreamed for the country," Khan said in a televised speech. "We will run Pakistan like it's never been run before." Author: David Martin