In December, President Donald Trump signed an executive order to send astronauts back to the moon as an initial step towards further exploration of the solar system. The intention is to have Earth's nearest neighbor serve as a stopping-off point for missions further into outer space, although there are also plans to mine resources that are to be found on the surface of the moon. In 2009, the Japanese space probe Kaguya landed on the moon and detected uranium, thorium, potassium, magnesium, silicon, calcium, titanium and iron in samples. That discovery opened up the possibility of commercial mining operations. The hurdle has always been the creation of colonies on the inhospitable surface of the moon and providing any settlers there with the large quantities of energy required to sustain life. Read more: Japanese satellite may have spotted largest ever gravity wave on Venus Resources available The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) is also in the planning stages of further missions to the moon with the goal of determining more accurately the amount of resources that are available. Some observers say this was prompted by the success of China's Jade Rabbit lunar rover mission in 2013. Experts believe that there are significant amounts of frozen water and iron on the moon, as well as helium-3 gas, which is only found on the moon and can be used as a fuel to develop nuclear fusion technology. Before exploration and exploitation of resources can commence on a large scale, however, the infrastructure required to support the moon's human colonists needs to be in place. "We first started planning for human beings to inhabit the moon as far back as 1987 because we believed that the time would come when people would be living there," said Hideo Imamura, a spokesman for Tokyo-based construction company Shimizu Corp. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2pCME The company has three priorities within its space business at the moment, he told DW. One is the construction of launch pads and related infrastructure for rocket launches, including on the moon; the second is the utilization of data from satellites, such as weather information and telecommunications links; and the third pillar is the development of construction techniques and equipment designed to function on the surface of the moon. Researchers are studying the optimum way to combine the surface soil found on the moon with water taken from melted ice to create a moon concrete. Concrete components can then be combined to create living and working spaces for inhabitants. Another proposal put forward by Shimizu would solve the well-documented energy problems facing Japan – and ultimately the entire planet – by turning the moon into a colossal solar power plant. The company wants to lay a belt of solar panels 400 kilometers wide around the equator of the moon and then relay the constant supply of energy to "receiving stations" on Earth by way of lasers or microwave transmission. Read more: Existence of ice on the Moon confirmed Energy from the moon The "Luna Ring" that is being proposed would be capable of sending 13,000 terawatts of power to Earth. In Germany in 2017, 38.4 terawatt-hours of electricity was fed into the national grid form photovoltaic arrays. "A shift from economical use of limited resources to the unlimited use of clean energy is the ultimate dream of mankind," Shimizu says in the proposal on its website. "The Luna Ring ... translates this dream into reality through ingenious ideas coupled with advanced space technologies." The Soviet Union launched its Sputnik satellite in 1957, beating US to the punch and prompting fears of Soviet dominance in space. In January of the next year, the US army responded by sending up the Explorer 1 satellite (pictured above). And on July 29, 1958, the US Congress approved the creation of the National Aeronautics and Space Agency, or NASA. The agency opened its doors on October 1. NASA managed to land humans on the surface of the moon on July 20, 1969, just 11 years after the association's foundation. The feat was accomplished using less computing power than that possessed by the modern-day smartphone. The photo shows Neil Armstrong and Erwin Aldrin planting the US flag on the lunar surface. On April 14, 1970, an oxygen tank on the Apollo 13 spacecraft exploded, prompting astronaut James Lovell (center) to report back to NASA base in Texas: "Houston, we've had a problem." The crew made it back to Earth after a risky repair operation. Lovell's phrase, slightly misquoted, was made famous by a 1995 movie, Apollo 13. The Challenger Space Shuttle was not as fortunate as Apollo 13. It exploded, killing all seven people on board, just minutes after takeoff on January 28, 1986. Famed physicist Richard Feynman eventually determined that the crash was caused by a rubber seal ring that failed in unusually cold temperatures. The Cold War rivalries between Russian and American scientists were finally buried on December 14, 1998, when the US-built Unity module and the Russian-made Zarya module docked in space. The two modules form the basis of what we now know as the International Space Station (ISS). On August 6, 2012, NASA landed the Curiosity rover on the surface of Mars. The mobile laboratory is still sending scientific findings, selfies and even tweets from Mars, albeit with a little help from its Earth-based handlers. Curiosity's data is crucial for NASA's next mission: landing humans on Mars some time in the 2030s. Author: Darko Janjevic Kajima Corp. has also been working with JAXA in recent years and is making preparations to send to the moon construction equipment that can be controlled remotely from Earth. Already a major construction firm on this planet, Kajima already deploys remote-controlled trucks and bulldozers on building sites and its experts believe similar technology will work 384,400 kilometers away. "NASA and JAXA are working very closely together on projects such as these because their interests coincide and the management of commercial enterprises in both countries have quite a bit to offer in this area," Lance Gatling, a space sector analyst and head of Asia-Pacific business for Texas-based Firefly Aerospace, told DW. Read more: Japan and Germany work jointly on Ryugu asteroid capture Further exploration "A manned facility on the moon is going to be critical as a gateway for further exploration of the solar system and beyond, a sort of way-station from Earth, and the US policy has been to spur commercial companies to go out and fulfill an increasingly demanding series of requirements that NASA puts forward so they can obtain designated status and be the companies that NASA turns to when it has a task," said Gatling. The Commercial Lunar Payload Services Program is one component of this, Gatling said, adding that the ultimate aim "is for people travelling to the moon to become commonplace and, after that, for people to live and work there." Read more: Japanese whisky to make space trip Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31Qbh