Egypt Station, Paul McCartney's first album in five years, comes out on Friday and it is praised as the 76-year-old's most ambitious album in years, combining classic Beatles-esque music with fresh sounds. While there is little explicit connection to Egypt, McCartney has described Egypt Station as a kind of musical travelogue. "Egypt Station starts off at the station on the first song and then each song is like a different station. So it gave us some idea to base all the songs around that," he said in a statement. "I think of it as a dream location that the music emanates from." He also explained that he aimed to create an exoticized metaphor for a distant, dreamlike journey on the album through a "travelogue vibe." It kicks off and ends with ambient pieces; the opening, a snippet of train noise, is followed by the piano ballad "I Don't Know," which McCartney has described as his favorite song on the album. The former Beatle recorded the Egypt Station in Los Angeles and Britain with Greg Kurstin, the US producer famous for co-writing Adele's mega-hit, "Hello." The album's 16 tracks include the catchy tune "Back in Brazil," the optimistic "People Want Peace," and "Fuh You," which was co-written and produced by OneRepublic's Ryan Tedder. Read more: Pop legend Paul McCartney turns 75 and can't be stopped A burst of energy The album's name is taken from one of McCartney's paintings, which depicts sunflowers and animals under a blue sky. The musician turned painter has been prolific over the years in his visual art, having shown his work for the first time in 1999 in Siegen, Germany. The album is McCartney's first since 2013's New, which also boasted a variety of younger producers and fresh sounds. The musician, despite having turned 76 in June, has celebrated a burst of energy in recent years that has included a global tour throughout 2016 and 2017. However, he told Rolling Stone magazine two years ago that it would be "unimaginable, and unseemly" to keep performing when he is 80. Sir Paul McCartney is a virtuoso on almost any instrument. He plays almost all with his left hand - like on his legendary Höfner 500/1 bass. One exception: He plays a right-handed drum kit. After the Beatles dissolved in 1970, McCartney continued solo and with his band Wings. Although his dad tried get him to switch, Jimi Hendrix strummed his guitar with his left hand. He was able to play the other way around, though - and ate and wrote with his right hand. He famously played a right-handed Fender Stratocaster flipped over and restrung. On Left-Handers' Day, DW presents other musicians who've made it big - despite being left-handed, or precisely because of it. Black Sabbath guitarist Tony Iommi (left) gave heavy metal its riffs. Iommi always played left-handed, which is almost a miracle: He lost his ring and middle finger tips at the age of 17 in an industrial accident. He could have switched hands, but "decided to make do with what I had, and I made some plastic fingertips for myself. I just persevered with it," he told "Guitar World" in 2008. Nirvana idol Kurt Cobain mostly played with his left hand - here on an inverted right-handed guitar. Once in a while he would pound Dave Grohl's right-handed drum kit. Cobain was a right-hander - and why he played guitar with the left is a mystery. His last words were written with his right hand: "I don't have the passion anymore, and so remember, it's better to burn out than to fade away." Ringo Starr is a lefty too, but plays his drums like a righty. Any drum set can easily be rearranged for left-handed play, simply by mirroring the arrangement of all the pieces. Starr's left-handed activities limited themselves, however, to off-stage. Phil Collins plays drums, and everything else, left-handed. That means he has the hi-hat cymbal on his right - and played with his left hand - and kicks the bass with his left foot. The musician from London became famous with progressive rock band Genesis. When he was younger, the Beatles were among his idols - he saw lefties play from early on. Blink-182 have done a lot to boost punk rock's image. Move over Sex Pistols, here comes the pop punk of the 90s. Travis Barker is the tattooed, flamboyant drummer, and he's a southpaw. One could says he's a non-conformist through and through - except that he plays a right-handed drum set. Elizabeth Cotten, an Afro-American blues singer, played in an unusual way: She simply took a right-handed guitar and turned it around - without reversing the strings. She is one of the few guitarists to have played the bass strings at the bottom with her fingers and stroke the melody with her thumb. Playing this way is therefore called "cotten picking." Charlie Chaplin fled London's poverty early and emigrated to the States. There he reached fame with his short movies, including "The Vagabond" in 1916. In it, he plays the violin with his left hand. Privately he also played violin and cello quite well, always bowing with his left. "Every spare moment away from the studio is devoted to this instrument," read a press release from 1917. Born in Buenos Aires, Daniel Barenboim learned piano from the masters of his day and is one of the world's most respected conductors. He is also founder of the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra - the only joint Israeli-Palestinian orchestra. Since 1992 he has been the director of the Berlin State Opera - where the left-hander picks up the baton with his right hand. Author: Christoph Trost als/eg (AFP, dpa)