German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen arrived in Iraq on Saturday to discuss her country's intention to develop its military assistance program in the country. Von der Leyen said that following the "Islamic State" militant group's military defeat in Iraq, it is time to move forward with other endeavors, including stabilization and reconstruction. "Now it is important to shape and protect the reconstruction of the country under a new mandate," said von der Leyen. "Germany is ready to continue helping Iraq get back to its feet. That is why I am here." 'Other forms of engagement' In February, von der Leyen said the role of the Bundeswehr — Germany's armed forces — needed to evolve to meet the "needs of Iraq." At the time, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said Baghdad wanted a "commitment from Germany" for "other forms of engagement," including training and logistics. Since 2014, Germany has provided Iraq with more than €1 billion ($1.16 billion) in humanitarian and development aid, making the Middle East country one of the largest recipients of German foreign assistance. Berlin also has about 150 troops stationed in northern Iraq to train Kurdish Peshmerga and runs a pilot training program north of Baghdad. Germany debates role Von der Leyen's visit comes as Germany mulls a greater military role in the region. German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday suggested that Berlin must be ready to respond if chemical weapons are used in war zones. "To simply say we can look away if somewhere chemical weapons are being used and international conventions are not kept, that can't be the answer," Merkel told lawmakers. Reports broke on Monday that the German Defense Ministry had started examining the possibility of joining military operations in Syria after Washington asked Berlin to consider a coordinated response against Damascus if the Syrian government stages a chemical attack. Skeptical SPD But the Social Democrats (SPD), a junior coalition partner in Merkel's government, had said it would only support a German response to a chemical weapons attack if it had UN backing. Some Germans are wary of foreign military interventions by the Bundeswehr, in part due to the country's experience during World War II. It is up to German parliament to deploy the Bundeswehr on foreign missions. Read more: Opinion: 'No' to a German military intervention in Syria West Germany officially joined the trans-Atlantic alliance in 1955. However, it wasn't until after reunification in 1990 that the German government considered "out of area" missions led by NATO. From peacekeeping to deterrence, Germany's Bundeswehr has since been deployed in several countries across the globe in defense of its allies. In 1995, Germany participated in its first "out of area" NATO mission as part of a UN-mandated peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the deployment, German soldiers joined other NATO member forces to provide security in the wake of the Bosnian War. The peacekeeping mission included more than 60,000 troops from NATO's member states and partners. Since the beginning of the NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, some 8,500 German soldiers have been deployed in the young country. In 1999, NATO launched an air assault against Serbian forces accused of carrying out a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanian separatists and their civilian supporters. Approximately 550 Bundeswehr troops are still stationed in Kosovo. In 2016, Germany deployed its combat support ship "Bonn" to lead a NATO mission backed by the EU in the Aegean Sea. The mission included conducting "reconnaissance, monitoring and surveillance of illegal crossings" in Greek and Turkish territorial waters at the height of the migration crisis. Germany, Greece and Turkey had requested assistance from the trans-Atlantic alliance. In 2003, Germany's parliament voted to send Bundeswehr troops to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Germany became the third-largest contributor of troops and led the Regional Command North. More than 50 German troops were killed during the mission. Nearly a thousand soldiers are still deployed in Afghanistan as part of Resolute Support. Forming part of NATO's "enhanced forward presence" in the Baltic states, 450 Bundeswehr soldiers have been deployed to Lithuania so far in 2017. The battalion-size battlegroups there are led by Germany, Canada, the UK and US to reinforce collective defense on the alliance's eastern flank. It forms the "biggest reinforcement of Alliance collective defence in a generation," according to NATO. The Bundeswehr is due to take over leadership of NATO's multinational Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) at the start of 2019. The rapid reaction force has been set up to counter potential Russian aggression on the alliance's eastern flank. Author: Lewis Sanders IV ls/sms (AP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.