A reported dispute at Oktoberfest has cost a 58-year-old German man his life, according to a tweet by Munich police. Two men are said to have got into a fight in one of the festival's many beer tents on Friday evening. Authorities said Saturday that one man fled the area after fatally injuring the other man, who died despite efforts to revive him. The victim was said to be from the Munich area. The police launched an investigation into the incident and asked witnesses of the fight to come forward and help authorities find the culprit. In particular, they said they were looking for a 40-to-45-year-old woman seen near the altercation. The fight most likely did not involve any weapon. No further details were immediately available. Read more:5 things you should know before going to Oktoberfest The first Oktoberfest, in 1810, actually was held in October. Today, it's still known as Oktoberfest, but opens each year in September. The reason for that is Bavaria's bad weather. It's even been known to snow in October — which would be a disaster for the festival. The world-famous beer celebration was moved up to September in 1904. To bridge the language barrier, it's a good idea to learn a few words in Bavarian dialect before going to Oktoberfest. "Servus" is a simple greeting. More difficult is "hock di her da," which you can say to offer someone else a spot at the table. If you have a communication block, try "host mi" for "do you understand?" And goodbye is "pfiat di," which is short for "may God watch over you." Dancing on the benches is not only tolerated — it's encouraged. But you shouldn't stand on the tables or take your clothes off. Another taboo is stealing beer mugs. Beware, thieves will be prosecuted. Nevertheless, they are still a beloved souvenir among many visitors. Each year, tens of thousands of beer mugs disappear. The really big half-liter mugs are particularly popular. You can show up in jeans and a t-shirt or in a traditional Bavarian outfit; just make sure your style is consistent. If you wear a dirndl, though, watch out: a bow on the left means you're single and a bow on the right means you're not. But if the bow is in the middle, you out yourself as a virgin. Only widows and servers wear their bows in the back. Not only does it contain more alcohol than your average beer, it tastes a bit milder and less bitter. That makes the beverage of choice at Oktoberfest — known as Wiesn beer — particularly dangerous! Some 7.5 million liters were drunk at last year's festival. This year, the stuff is being sold at record speed — even though the price has risen to €11.40 ($13.40) per liter. Author: Antje Binder (kbm) Tight security The 185th Oktoberfest began in the Bavarian capital, Munich, on September 22, and will end on October 7. Drunken brawls and accidents are common during the festival, which is famous among other things for the quantities of beer consumed there. This year, some 600 police officers and several hundred security personnel have been deployed in Munich amid concerns of possible terrorist attacks. The Theresienwiese, where the Oktoberfest takes place, is now surrounded by fences and visitors are no longer allowed to carry rucksacks into the area. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35Lff shs/tj  ( dpa, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.