Copies of memos documenting ex-FBI director James Comey's meetings and phone calls with US President Donald Trump were posted online late Thursday. The release of the documents has been highly anticipated since their existence was made public last year, as they are believed to be critical to special counsel Robert Mueller's  investigation into whether the Trump tried to interfere with a probe into potential collusion between his campaign team and Russia in the 2016 US elections. Read more: Why the question of how James Comey understood Donald Trump is so crucial The seventh in a lineage of FBI directors with law degrees, James Comey has shaped politics in the US as the head of the law enforcement agency. But who is the man behind the headlines? From prosecuting an American celebrity to refusing to sanction the NSA's mass surveillance program, DW explores the contentious life of James Comey. Serving as Manhattan's chief federal prosecutor, Comey rose to notoriety in 2002, when he led the prosecution of US celebrity Martha Stewart for securities fraud and obstruction of justice. Stewart, widely known in the US for her cooking and lifestyle shows, served a 5-month jail sentence following the highly-publicized case. In late 2003, Comey was confirmed as the US deputy attorney general, making him the second-highest-ranking official in the Justice Department. Serving under former President George W. Bush, Comey endorsed a memorandum approving the use of 13 enhanced interrogation techniques during the War on Terror, including waterboarding. He later said he lobbied to have the policy toned down. Comey has warned of the consequences of domestic mass surveillance, saying in March: "There is no such thing as absolute privacy in America." While serving as acting attorney general during the hospitalization of John Ashcroft in 2004, he refused to endorse the legality of the NSA's domestic surveillance program, even when pressured by the Bush administration. In 2013, then-President Barack Obama nominated Comey to serve as the seventh director of the FBI. He received the nomination despite being a registered member of the Republican party. Later that year, he received congressional approval to takeover the office. In his installation speech, he said the bureau's work is founded on integrity. "Without integrity, all is lost," he said. In 2015, Comey penned an op-ed on why he required new FBI special agents and intelligence analysts to visit the Holocaust Museum in Washington. He said the reason was to have them understand the consequences of abusing power and to be confronted by the atrocities humans are capable of. "I believe that the Holocaust is the most significant event in human history," he said. In July 2016, Comey announced that the FBI had found no evidence of criminal intention in Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server as state secretary. But days before the presidential election, he issued a letter to lawmakers informing them of new emails deemed "pertinent to the investigation." He later said no evidence was uncovered. Clinton has since blamed Comey for losing the election. On May 9, Trump sent Comey an unusual letter firing the FBI director, cutting short his 10-year mandate to lead the bureau. Given the ongoing FBI-led investigation into election-meddling by Russia, critics have warned that the move may amount to obstruction of justice for undermining the probe. Trump later appeared to threaten Comey over the existence of "tapes" of their conversations. Comey reportedly kept memos of interactions between him and President Donald Trump, which appear to implicate the head of state in attempts to obstruct a federal probe into Russia's alleged involvement in influencing the 2016 election. The day after US media reported on the existence of the memos, the Justice Department named a special counsel to lead the probe amid fears of White House influence. US media have reported that Comey is expected to testify in a public congressional hearing that Trump tried to pressure him into dropping an investigation concerning former national security adviser Michael Flynn. US lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have pushed for Comey to testify on the investigation. But will his testimony have anything new to add? Only time will tell. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Key points from the memos According to the memos Comey says Trump told him: 'No obstruction' Trump said on Twitter that Comey's memos showed there was no collusion with Russia and no obstruction of justice, adding that Comey had leaked classified information. The Republican chairmen of three US House committees, Robert Goodlatte, Devin Nunes and Trey Gowdy, released a joint statement saying the 15 pages of documents showed Comey never "felt obstructed or threatened." The three suggested the memos "would be Defense Exhibit A" if Trump were charged with obstruction of justice. Read more: What you need to know about the five inquiries looking into Donald Trump, James Comey and Russia Who is James Comey? Comey was the former director of the FBI. He was fired in May 2017 while he was leading an investigation into possible Russian intereference in the 2016 US presidential election. Who is Michael Flynn? Flynn is Trump's former national security advisor who was fired in February 2017 after White House officials said he misled them about his Russian contacts because he said that he had not discussed sanctions. He has pleaded guilty to misleading the FBI on Russia conversations and is now cooperating with investigators. Why are the Comey-Trump memos important? The memos detail three months of conversations between Comey and Trump from before the former FB director was fired. They are thought to be key in special counsel Robert Mueller's probe into Russian involvement in the 2016 election, and collusion between Trump and Russia. law/rt (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)