An airport worker died after a Bundeswehr, armed forces helicopter collided with a traffic control tower at an airport in the southern German state of Bavaria, local police said on Tuesday. The accident occurred shortly after the transport helicopter landed at Hassfurt-Schweinfurt airport in northern Bavaria just after 10 a.m. local time (0800 UTC) on Monday. Read more: Germany's lack of military readiness 'dramatic,' says Bundeswehr commissioner On its way to a refueling station, the helicopter's spinning blades hit the control tower, raining shrapnel and debris on the surrounding area and hitting the attendant. The critically injured man died of his wounds hours later after being airlifted to a nearby hospital. Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen wanted to show she's not blind to problems among her own troops. In light of the most recent scandal, she openly criticized army leadership, saying the Bundeswehr had an "attitude problem." But Bundeswehr officials found her comments to be outrageous. Their response to the defense minister's criticism: "Leadership goes from the top down." The story causing the uproar: Bundeswehr lieutenant Franco A. was allegedly planning a terrorist attack and led a double life, pretending to be a Syrian refugee. He was granted partial asylum status as a war refugee in December 2016. His alleged goal: another attack blamed on a refugee. Bundeswehr officials are said to have known about Franco A.'s right-wing tendencies since 2014, but did nothing. The Bundeswehr is currently investigating 275 cases of suspected right-wing extremism. But they're also dealing with other types of scandals. In March 2017, the public learned about the case of a lance corporal who had suffered months of abuse in a Bavarian mountain rangers unit. The victim reported being threatened and sexually harassed in 2015 and 2016. Prosecutors investigated 14 people. The biggest scandal of von der Leyen's term so far: the horror stories coming out of the Staufer army base in Pfullendorf. In January, it was revealed that superior officers there forced recruits to undress and perform sexually-motivated acts and filmed them. Female recruits were forced to pole dance as part of an "entrance exam." The top Bundeswehr training commander was fired as a result. According to a report from Germany's federal parliamentary commissioner for the Bundeswehr, Hans-Peter Bartels, 2016 wasn't a great year for the Bundeswehr, either. There were around 60 incidents related to alleged right-wing extremism or "violations against the bases of Germany's free democratic constitutional structure." Troops shared anti-Semitic images and music or did the Nazi salute. The Bundeswehr wasn't immune to scandals before von der Leyen became defense minister in December 2013. One that garnered significant public attention was the death of a 25-year-old recruit on the Navy training vessel Gorch Fock in 2010. The woman fell from the rigging during an exercise. As a consequence, other cadets refused to climb the rigging. Officer training on the ship was suspended. Directly after World War II, Germany was not allowed to have an army. The Bundeswehr had its start in West Germany in 1955. After reunification, the Bundeswehr took in 20,000 soldiers from East Germany's armed forces. A big change came in 1999, when the Bundeswehr first participated in an international conflict: the Kosovo War. Before that, they had only gone abroad for peacekeeping missions. Today the Bundeswehr has roughly 178,200 active soldiers. As of March 2017, 11.4 percent of them are women. Until 2011, men were required to do mandatory military service, the length of which varied between nine and 18 months. Today, the Bundeswehr has to appeal to young people to recruit soldiers. The most recent scandals are making that that more and more difficult. Author: Carla Bleiker Read more: Limited number of weapons in German military ready for action The transport helicopter's four-man crew was uninjured and has been received psychological counseling. The Bundeswehr and the police are currently investigating the scene of the accident to determine what caused the collision. A police spokesman said total damages to nearby aircraft and buildings were likely to be more than a million euros ($1.2 million) and added that Hassfurt-Schweinfurt airport would be closed "until further notice." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2v2ha Read more: German military investigates drill instructors for overexerting new recruits Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 