The United States and its European allies early Saturday launched airstrikes on Syrian research, development and military facilities in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack last weekend near Damascus that killed at least 40 people. The tripartite military action from the United States, France and Britain was designed to set back or destroy Syria's chemical weapons program, the three countries said, and deter any further use in violation of international conventions. They stressed that the strikes were limited and not intended to signal a Western intervention in the Syrian civil war or regime change. "The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread and use of chemical weapons," US President Donald Trump said in a televised address. "We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents." In London, Prime Minister Theresa May repeated that the military action was not about "intervening in a civil war" and "it is not about regime change." "It is about a limited and targeted strike that does not further escalate tensions in the region and that does everything possible to prevent civilian casualties," she said. Read more: Airstrikes in Syria: What you need to know Limited military operation Sam Heller, a senior analyst at the International Crisis Group, said the military action seemed intended as a limited, proportional and deterrent response against chemical weapons use. "That is how these strikes were evidently planned in terms of the targets that were selected and also how they were communicated publically, which seems to be uniformly in terms of chemical weapons deterrent, not more expansive political demands or some attempt at regime change," he said. Trump, who in recent weeks has signaled the US may pullback its presence in northeast Syria after the defeat of the "Islamic State" (IS), said in his remarks that the United States was not seeking a permanent presence in Syria. The military action came despite concern that it could trigger unintended consequences, including direct Western conflict with Russia, which backs the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and has troops at the Hmeimim air base and its naval facility at Tartus. Read more: Russia demands UN Security Council condemn missile attack Moscow said none of the more than 100 missiles targeted its bases and it did not activate its air defenses, despite threats earlier in the week that it would shoot down missiles and the platforms from where they were launched. Russia said Syrian air defenses shot down 71 out of 103 missiles, although that could not be confirmed independently and the Pentagon said the strikes "successfully hit every target." Read more: What foreign powers want from the Syrian war Enough to deter chemical weapons use? It is unclear if the tripartite military action will have the desired effect of halting chemical weapons attacks. The Assad regime has repeatedly used chemical weapons, including chlorine and nerve agents, during the seven-year war, despite a 2013 deal brokered by the United States and Russia to remove Syria's chemical weapons. Trump ordered 59 cruise missile launches in April 2017 on a Syria air base in response to a nerve agent attack in the rebel-held town of Khan Sheikhoun in northwestern Syria. Read more: Opinion: Syrian airstrikes send a clear message "The erosion of the norm (against chemical weapons use) has already taken place," said Eran Etzion, a former Israeli deputy national security adviser. There is no reason to believe that the "overall erosion of the use of chemical weapons will change." Nicholas Heras, a Middle East Security Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, described Trump's actions as a "dog and pony show." Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis said the strikes were a "one-time shot," unless the Assad regime used chemical weapons again. "The Trump administration literally slapped Bashar al-Assad on the wrist, and even worse, the Trump team seemed to justify al-Assad using non-chemical weapon means to win his war. As long as al-Assad does not use chemical weapons, he is good," said Heras. Joshua Landis, the director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma, said the United States had tried to look strong in a situation where it does not have much leverage, and seeks to leave Syria. "Ultimately, what Trump is doing with these deterrence exercises is influencing a very narrow bandwidth within the Syrian civil war, which is the use of chemical weapons," he said, pointing out chemical weapons attacks have killed an estimated 1,900 people in a war that has claimed half a million lives. War running in Assad's favor The Western military response comes as the Syrian regime, backed by Russia and Iran, has largely turned the war in its favor, retaking large swaths of territory from rebels since Russia intervened in 2015. This week, the Syrian regime retook full control from rebels of the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta, including Douma where the alleged chemical weapons attack took place, after a two-month regime offensive. The Assad regime and its allies retook eastern Ghouta this week after a nearly two-month offensive. "From the point of view of al-Assad, Iran and Russian, the real action of this war in happening on the ground and on the ground al-Assad is winning," said Landis. "Syria and Russia have zero interest in escalating with America" at a time Washington is signalling it will pull back from Syria. Read more: Opinion: A US pullback from Syria is a terrible idea Both Russia and Iran decried what they called a violation of international law and Syria's sovereignty, but it was unclear what, if any, response they would make. The reaction from Syria and its backers following the 2017 US strike in Syria was muted despite repeated threats. Asymmetric response If there is a Russian, Syrian or Iranian response, it is likely to be indirect and asymmetrical, such as targeting or undermining the US presence in Syria or retaliating against its allies. "There are certainly various asymmetric means through which Russia, Syria and Iran could respond inside Syria or outside," said Heller. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2w2ux The United States is vulnerable in northeastern Syria, where it has about 2,000 special forces deployed alongside the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a mixed Kurdish and Arab force fighting IS and seeking to stabilize the northeast of the country. It also has troops in Iraq, where Iran-backed militias hold considerable sway. Assad supporters rallied in Damascus and other cities to support the president and Russia. Radio claimed victory over the US and other enemies. According to Heller, "there are ways the Syrian government and its allies can make it more difficult or less tenable for the US and its coalition to operate inside Syria," including possibly Russia using its air defenses to limit US airpower. "The lowest-hanging fruit for Bashar al-Assad and his allies is not to target the United States military directly in Syria, but to try to degrade the efforts of the Syrian Democratic Forces to govern in the wake of IS," said Heras. "If al-Assad and his allies can weaken the SDF, they can crack the foundation of the US military's planning for Syria." Threat of Israel-Iran conflict Another potential response could be aimed directly or indirectly at Israel, which has carried out dozens of airstrikes in Syria targeting Iran and its Lebanese Shiite proxy Hezbollah. On Monday, suspected Israeli warplanes targeted Syria's T-4 air base, drawing a rebuke from Russia and vows of retaliation from Iran. Following Saturday's US-led strikes, a top Russian defense official, Colonel-General Sergei Rudskoi, said Moscow may reconsider supplying Syria with S-300 surface-to-air missile systems to upgrade its aging Soviet-era anti-missile systems. Such a move would restrict Israel's freedom to maneuver across Syria's skies. "It is reasonable to expect that Russia will limit the ability of Israel to exercise a similar attack in the future," Etzion said, referring to the T-4 strike. "For the Russians, they don't want to be seen as supporting direct confrontation with Israel, but do believe the higher profile of alleged Israeli attacks in Syria are an increasing concern for them." Israel has long warned it won't allow an Iranian and Hezbollah entrenchment in Syria that could target Israel, raising concern about direct conflict between the two enemies that could spiral into a regional war. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson