Thousands of Canadians have gathered in Toronto to honor those killed and injured in a van attack last Monday. Ten candles, sheltered by tea light holders, were placed on a stage in memory of the eight women and two men killed when they were struck by a rental van driven along a sidewalk in the north end of Toronto. Sixteen others were injured. Read more: Do bollards offer protection against vehicle attacks? "Our sorrows are reflected in the eyes of the stranger beside to us. We stand together," said Reverend Alexa Gilmore of the Windermere United Church, opening the somber event. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Governor General Julie Payette, who represented Queen Elizabeth II, and Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne were among the mourners at Toronto's Mel Lastman Square, just steps away form the street where the attack took place. 'Toronto Strong' "Love for all, hatred for none," was the message seen on large posters and blue T-shirts donned by the people at the "Toronto Strong" vigil, which included representatives from each of the city's diverse range of religious communities. "Toronto has felt the pain of other cities," affected by vehicle ramming attacks, such as London, Paris and Berlin, said Rabbi Barud Frydman. People also shared their messages on social media, including city councillor Kristyn Wong-Tam and Mayor John Tory. Police say the suspect, 25-year-old Alek Minassian, had targeted "predominantly women," as evidenced by a "cryptic" message he posted on Facebook minutes before the attack. In the post, Minassian had called for an "Incel Rebellion." "Incel" — short for "involuntarily celibate" — is often used in connection with online groups of sexually frustrated men who are known to rant against women. Minassian faces 10 counts of premeditated murder, as well as multiple attempted murder charges related to the injured survivors. ap/cmk (AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Police sealed off the scene after a van mounted a curb in northern Toronto and ran into several pedestrians on Monday. Canadian authorities later confirmed 10 people had been killed and 15 injured. Pedestrians help a victim as several were treated for various, unspecified injuries by first responders following the incident. The incident began at the corner of Yonge Street and Finch Avenue, according to local media — a major intersection in northern Toronto. The vehicle involved in the crash fled the scene, but was eventually found and the driver taken into custody. Police said the suspect was a 25-year-old man from Richmond Hill on the outskirts of Toronto. Authorities closed an eight-block stretch of Yonge Street — one of the busiest stretches in Toronto — after the incident. The subway system was also suspended and people were asked to stay away from the scene. At a press conference, police chief Mark Saunders said the driver's actions "looked deliberate," but stopped short from describing the Monday event as an act of terrorism. "We follow where the evidence takes us," he said. A woman talks with Toronto police near the site of the incident. Authorities have encouraged people who saw what happened to step forward as they continue investigating the scene. Author: Davis VanOpdorp, Darko Janjevic