Thomas Bach held talks with Kim Jong Un, the North Korean dictator, during a three-day visit to Pyongyang from March 29, with the North's state-run media playing up their discussions. The Korea Central News Agency reported that Kim "received" the IOC president and stated that Bach "expressed the most heartfelt thanks to the respected Chairman Kim" for permitting North Korean athletes to take part in the recent Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea and for making the games "symbolic of peace." The report also claimed that Bach "expressed his will to make sure that the IOC would cooperate with the DPRK [North Korea]" in preparing for North Korean competitors to attend the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Read more: North, South Korean officials meet to hash out logistics ahead of rare summit North Korea wants to be in next two Olympics, says IOC chief 'Bloodstained dictator' Ken Kato, director of Human Rights in Asia and a member of the International Coalition to Stop Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea, said an image of "Bach shaking hands with the bloodstained dictator was terrible, but what was more irritating was a photo on the website of the Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the Workers' Party of Korea, of them walking together and smiling." According to Japan's Jiji Press news service, Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe phoned Bach after he left North Korea and requested that IOC chief "bear in mind the feelings of the Japanese people." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vM1I Tokyo has consistently called on Pyongyang to provide details on as many as 100 Japanese nationals, who were abducted by North Korean agents to train future generations of spies. The North in 2002 admitted abducting 13 Japanese, permitted five to return to Japan and claimed the rest had died of illness or in accidents. Tokyo does not believe Pyongyang's claims and is calling on the international community to include the issue of its abducted citizens in any discussions with the North that could lead to sanctions on the regime being relaxed. Kato has written to the IOC – and is awaiting a reply – claiming that by meeting Kim, Bach is "ignoring the regime's track-record of human rights violations against its own people and those from other countries." "It sends Kim the message that the international community is already relaxing the pressure on the North," he said. "I am sure that Bach believes that his actions are helping to promote peace, but that idea is immature and childish because Kim will do everything in his power to divide the international community and keep power for himself." Read more: Japanese PM Shinzo Abe warns North Korea talks could be ploy K-Pop diplomacy as Kim Jong Un attends concert by S. Korean stars After Kim-Xi meeting, Abe eager to advance Japan's interests Although China and North Korea have maintained close diplomatic relations in the past, the relationship has declined in recent years. Unprecedented border controls on the south of the Jilin Province in China reflect the atmosphere: Apart from passports, travelers must hand in all their devices and luggage for an exhaustive, lengthy inspection. Despite all the restrictions, a viable connection to China is vital for North Korea. A new bridge over the Yalu river, which divides the two countries, is supposed to replace the derelict Sino-Korean Friendship Bridge that covers 70 percent of all bilateral trade. Construction on the North Korean side has stopped due to lack of finance in spite of Chinese private investments. North Hamgyong Province, which borders with Russia and China, was hit by massive flooding last year that damaged or washed away barbed wire fences that prevent North Koreans from defecting or smuggling goods. It did not take long for the local administration to start building new fences and deploying guards to the border areas who are under orders to shoot any possible defectors on site. The number of North Korean defectors has been decreasing for several years in a row, but it is still a sensitive subject for the regime. The photo above shows a South Korean television celebrity Lim Ji Hyun (Jeon Hye Song by her real name) who returned to North Korea under suspicious circumstances and made a public statement in July on the local propaganda TV channel about the "hell in the South." Many North Korean defectors return to their country after their families are detained or blackmailed. Following a recent report, the regime has dispatched agents to border regions in China to locate and kidnap defectors. The abduction teams stay in the Jiangbin International Hotel and Life's Business Hotel in Dandong, the release stated. Even though it is impossible for its inhabitants to leave North Korea, the country invites foreign tourists to discover the many attractions of the country. The official North Korean travel agency even launched its international website in August, offering trips to various parts of North Korea and even theme tours focused on architecture, biking, sports or - as cynically as it sounds - labor. Author: Jan Tomes Political prison camps "And that will mean that tens of thousands of men, women and children will continue to die in Kim's political prison camps and the gulags set up for anyone who utter a word against his regime, along with three generations of their families," he added. A commission of inquiry set up by the United Nations in 2013 issued a 400-page report in February of the following year in which it identified a "wide array of crimes against humanity" orchestrated by the North Korean government. Basing its findings on first-hand testimony from victims and witnesses, the report identified "unspeakable atrocities" with a "gravity, scale and nature" that "does not have any parallel in the contemporary world." "These crimes against humanity entail extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortions and other sexual violence, persecution on political, religious, racial and gender grounds, the forcible transfer of populations, the enforced disappearance of persons and the inhumane act of knowingly causing prolonged starvation," the report says, adding that "Crimes against humanity are ongoing in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea because the policies, institutions and patterns of impunity that lie at their heart remain in place." Park So-keel, director of research and strategy for the Seoul office of Liberty in North Korea, says that while any developments that reduce the likelihood of a conflict breaking out on the peninsula are positive, there is a fear that governments are willing to strike a deal with Pyongyang that will not address its human rights abuses. "There's definitely concern that governments' short-term focus will be on security and human rights will be seen as longer-term issue and be sidelined," he told DW. Read more: North Korean defector: 'I am still not free' Opinion: A big stage for the 'little rocket man' In 2016, US student Otto Warmbier was arrested for allegedly stealing a propaganda poster as a "trophy." He was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for "crimes against the state." In June 2017, he was returned by North Korea to the US in a coma and died a week later. What happened to him in captivity is a mystery. His death prompted a travel ban for US citizens to North Korea. Kim Dong Chul, a South Korea-born US citizen, was sentenced in 2015 to 10 years hard labor for "subversion and espionage" after North Korean officials said he received a USB stick containing nuclear-linked and military secrets from a South Korean source in North Korea. Chul was arrested in the special economic zone Rason while visiting. He remains imprisoned and his condition is unknown. In 2013, North Korea sentenced US citizen Kenneth Bae to 15 years hard labor for "crimes against the state." He was arrested with a tour group in the port city of Rason. A North Korean court described Bae as a militant Christian evangelist. He was once allowed to talk to the media, and said he was forced to work eight hours a day and was in poor health. Bae was released in November 2014. In 2013, US citizen Matthew Miller was arrested when he arrived in Pyongyang and reportedly tore up his US passport, demanding asylum in North Korea. He was later sentenced to six years of hard labor on charges of espionage. The court said Miller had a "wild ambition" to experience prison life so that he could secretly investigate North Korea's human rights situation. He was released in 2014. In 2013, Merrill Newman an 85-year-old Korean War US Army veteran, was detained for one month in North Korea. Arrested as he was departing, he was accused of "masterminding espionage and subversive activities." He was freed after he expressed "sincere repentance" and read a statement that said he was "guilty of a long list of indelible crimes against the DPRK government and Korean people." US journalists Euna Lee and Laura Ling were captured in 2009 after briefly entering North Korea to report on refugees. After a month in confinement, they were sentenced to 12 years hard labor for "illegal entry and "hostile acts." Two months later, after former US President Bill Clinton met with former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang, the two women were pardoned and freed. Author: Wesley Rahn Human rights talks ruled out There are reports that Moon Jae-in, the South Korean president, has already ruled out human rights as a topic for discussion when he meets the North Korean leader later this month. The main issues for Seoul will be North Korea's nuclear and long-range missile capabilities. It is not clear what Pyongyang is going to demand in return for denuclearization. "There is always the risk that the short-term political risk is going to be the most pressing matter for political leaders and many of the issues that make up the bigger picture get overlooked," said Park. Kato is determined not to let that happen. "If we permit this murderous regime to continue to oppress its people, what does that say about the global society?" he said. "We know this is going on. We have evidence that it is happening. I believe the people of North Korea will feel abandoned when they see Bach shaking hands with Kim." "It would be a crime parallel to the world ignoring the fate of the Jews in Europe during World War II if we let this continue to go on," he added. "And at least back then, there was far less evidence of what was happening to the Jews than there is today about the fate of millions of North Koreans." Read more: Kim Jong Un pledges 'denuclearization' in talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said in his New Year’s address that his country was in the "final stages" of launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). US President-elect Donald Trump, whose inauguration was set for January 20, said on Twitter: "North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the US. It won't happen!" North Korea tested its first ICBM — the Hwasong-14 — on US Independence Day. Kim reportedly told his scientists that "the US would be displeased" by the launch. This, he said, was because "it was given a 'package of gifts' ... on its 'Independence Day.'" Trump wrote on Twitter in response: "North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?" Pyongyang tested its second Hwasong-14 weeks later. Experts estimated the new rocket could reach the US mainland. Trump lashed out at North Korean ally China, writing in a Tweet: "I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk." Trump appeared to threaten swift military action against Pyongyang when he told reporters: "North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen." North Korea responded by threatening to fire a medium-range ballistic missile into the waters around Guam, a US territory in the Pacific Ocean. It did not follow through. Pyongyang sparked international outcry when it test-launched a mid-range ballistic missile — the Hwasong-12 — over Japan. The UN Security Council unanimously condemned the test. Trump said in a White House statement: "Threatening and destabilizing actions only increase the North Korean regime’s isolation in the region and among all nations of the world. All options are on the table." North Korea announced it had successfully tested its sixth nuclear weapon. Pyongyang said it was a powerful type of nuclear weapon called a hydrogen bomb and that it could be placed on top of a ballistic missile. Trump wrote on Twitter: "The United States is considering, in addition to other options, stopping all trade with any country doing business with North Korea." In his first speech at the United Nations, Trump called North Korea a "rogue state" and said Washington "will have no choice than to totally destroy North Korea" if Pyongyang failed to stop its nuclear weapons program. Referring to Kim, he added: "Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime." Kim called Trump a "mentally-deranged US dotard" two days later. North Korea test-fired its third ICBM of 2017. Pyongyang claimed it was a new missile, the Hwasong-15, which was superior to the Hwasong-14 and could hit any target on the US mainland. The US urged allies, including Germany, to break diplomatic ties with North Korea. Berlin ignored the call. Trump also called Kim a "sick puppy." Kim said in his 2018 New Year's address that the North had completed its nuclear weapons program and that a "nuclear button" was on his desk at all times. Trump wrote two days later on Twitter: "Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" South Korean President Moon Jae-in welcomed Kim's sister, Kim Yo Jong, at the presidential house in the South Korean capital. She handed a letter to Moon inviting him to meet the North Korean leader in Pyongyang. Tensions appeared to be thawing. Seoul and Pyongyang had already agreed to send a unified hockey team to compete at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. South Korean National Security Adviser Chung Eui-yong led a delegation on March 5 to Pyongyang to discuss the potential for peace talks. The next day, Chung said both sides had agreed to hold a joint summit in April and set up a telephone hotline between the two capitals. He also said Pyongyang would agree to stop its nuclear weapons and missile tests if the US agreed to hold talks with the North. Chung flew on to Washington, D.C. to speak with Trump. After the meeting, Chung told reporters the US president had agreed to meet Kim by May. Trump later wrote on Twitter: "no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!" Foreign leaders welcomed the historic breakthrough. Author: Alexander Pearson