German newspapers on Saturday described Chancellor Angela Merkel's brief meeting with US President Donald Trump as a pleasant encounter that ultimately failed to make headway on several pressing issues — namely the Iran nuclear deal and a possible US-EU trade war. The two shook hands for the cameras and exchanged kisses on both cheeks at the start of the chancellor's visit to Washington on Friday. Both leaders also stressed the importance of ties between their countries at a press conference. Read more: Unexpectedly cordial Angela Merkel-Donald Trump meeting a small win President Donald Trump appeared standoffish in front of the cameras when he welcomed Chancellor Angela Merkel to the White House last March. The US president refused to extend a hand to the chancellor in front of media at the Oval Office, a stiff image that defined their first encounter. Merkel and Trump had a much more friendly aura when the two met in Washington for the second time, greeting each other with a cordial kiss on the cheek when the German chancellor arrived at the White House. A year after their uncomfortable photo op, Trump and Merkel provided the public with their long-awaited handshake. In fact, it was Trump who extended his hand to Merkel this time around. Trump called Merkel an "extraordinary woman" when the two addressed media on Friday. But the two are still ironing out some disagreements, including what to do about the Iran nuclear deal and whether the US will continue an EU tariff exemption on steel and aluminum imports. Author: Davis VanOpdorp The Süddeutschezeitung called it a "refreshingly normal meeting," that was at least "accident free," even if it didn't result in any concrete progress. "[Merkel] has already had worse experiences with Trump," Süddeutsche correspondent Thorsten Denkler in New York wrote, reminding readers that a year ago, in the same spot, Trump "ignored all requests to shake hands with Merkel." "Trump is doing a lot this time around to make this visit look like a normal working meeting between two ordinary heads of government … In the whole madness of this presidency, that is a refreshing change." Read more: US-German conflicts — what you need to know Nuclear deal On the agenda at the talks: the laboriously negotiated nuclear deal with Iran, which Trump has threatened to cancel on May 12, and an upcoming US decision on whether to extend an exemption for the EU on punitive tariffs on aluminum and steel. The president left both questions open. Julian Heissler, Washington correspondent for Hamburg-based Die Zeit, stressed that although Trump extended "particular courtesy" to Merkel, he did not budge from his stance on Iran: "The ideas of the president and chancellor differ substantively on too many issues and nobody in Berlin anyway believes that Trump can be dissuaded from his convictions with arguments." "The difficult times for the traditional US-European partnership are far from over." Read more: Emmanuel Macron's risky role as Donald Trump's best friend US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany. "Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time. "The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting. "As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone. "I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution. "Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March 2017. Author: Lewis Sanders IV The Süddeutsche noted, however, that Trump appeared to be more "moderate" in his use of language, opting not to reiterate his criticism that the Iran pact was the worst agreement ever made while still committing to preventing Tehran from developing nuclear weapons. "This can be interpreted as a hint that he will actually leave the agreement," Der Spiegel wrote. The weekly news magazine also agreed that Trump struck an "unusually diplomatic" tone, particularly when broaching the subject of NATO partners — including Germany — failing to pay their share of 2 percent of GDP for defense. Trump avoided criticizing Merkel or Germany directly and doled out praise to countries like Poland for contributing more than the prescribed amount. In the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ), foreign affairs editor Klaus-Dieter Frankenberger wrote that Merkel's acknowledgement that the US was no longer willing to vouch for Europe's security made it clear that "Germany will increasingly have to help itself." "What does all this mean for the unity of NATO and the future of the transatlantic relationship?" he asked. "For Trump it comes down to: no service without return. That's the new reality." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wpVQ Diplomatic success for Trump Germany's daily Bild tabloid assessed the meeting as a victory for Trump, who used the opportunity to "repeatedly celebrate" his role in peace talks between the leaders of North and South Korea. The paper's Washington correspondent, Ralf Schuler, concluded that it was therefore never going to be "a good day for him to negotiate concessions." He added that Merkel's comment that "the president will decide" on punitive trade tariffs showed she had "no real leverage." Many papers drew stark contrasts between Merkel's brief, business-like visit and French President Emmanuel Macron's charm offensive earlier in the week. During his three-day stay, Macron was honored with a state banquet and the opportunity to address both chambers of Congress. Ultimately, as Die Welt politics correspondent Alan Posener put it, both Merkel and Macron "returned home empty handed" from meetings that were overshadowed by the talks between the two Koreas. Both "realized that Trump is determined to implement what he promised his constituents," he wrote. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.