Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu kicked off Independence Day celebrations at sundown on Wednesday at a torch-lighting ceremony, issuing veiled threats to Iran and offering an outstretched hand to those who want peace. Netanyahu said Israel faced "continued incitement by our neighbors, a great many of whom refuse to come to terms with our existence" and warned that "anyone who raises a hand against us won't be spared." At the same time, the Israeli premier said: "our hand is outstretched in peace to all of our neighbors who want peace." Read more: German-Israeli relations: What you need to know Netanyahu's comment come amid rising tensions with Iran over its presence in Syria and signals that decades-old enmities between Israel and the Gulf Arab states are retreating over shared concerns about Tehran. "Admiration toward Israel is finally trickling to Arab countries. Here, I believe, lie real seeds for peace," he said. Read more: Israel at 70: What does the future hold? Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wIPz Netanyahu repeated threats against Iran entrenching itself in war-torn Syria, warning that Israel would not hesitate to defend itself. Concern is mounting over a possible regional war between Israel and Iran. Earlier during a somber Memorial Day ceremony remembering fallen soldiers and victims of terrorism, Netanyahu spoke of the "barbaric zealotry of radical Islam." The torch-lighting ceremony begins Independence Day celebrations, which include parties, concerts and fireworks. US President Donald Trump on Twitter wished Netanyahu and Israel a great 70th Independence Day anniversary, and said he was looking forward to moving the US Embassy to Jerusalem next month. The planned embassy move has enraged Palestinians and the Muslim world, undermining the relaunch of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians towards a two-state solution. Read more: Israeli-Palestinian peace process: 'Don't tear down bridges,' Heiko Maas warns The 70th anniversary of the founding of a Jewish state comes as Israel faces rolling weekly Friday protests by Palestinians in Gaza. On May 14, 1948, David Ben-Gurion, future first prime minister of Israel, declares the state's independence, outlining the Jewish story: "The people kept faith with (the land) throughout their dispersion and never ceased to pray and hope for their return to it and for the restoration in it of their political freedom." It was the birth of an internationally recognized Jewish homeland. While the controversial idea of a God-given land for Jews has biblical roots, the Holocaust was a close, powerful backdrop for the significance of Israel's founding. Nazi Germany murdered six million Jews across Europe, and those who survived the concentration camps endured expulsion and forced labor. The above photo shows survivors of the Auschwitz camp following liberation. That is the word that Palestinians and their supporters use to mark Israel's independence. About 700,000 Arabs living in Palestine at the time fled as waves of Jewish immigrants arrived to settle in the new Jewish state. The birth of Israel was the start of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which remains unresolved 70 years later despite numerous attempts. These land collectives, known as kibbutzim in the plural, were established across Israel following independence. Many were run by secular or socialist Jews in an effort to realize their vision of society. Tensions with its Arab neighbors erupted in the Six-Day War in June 1967. With a surprise attack, Israel is able to swiftly defeat Egypt, Jordan and Syria, bringing the Arab-populated areas of the Sinai Peninsula, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights under Israeli control. Victory leads to occupation — and more tension and conflict. Israel's settlement policy worsens the conflict with Palestinians. Due to development and expansion of Jewish areas on occupied Palestinian land, the Palestinian Authority accuses Israel of making a future Palestinian state untenable. Israel has largely ignored the international community's criticism of its settlement policy, arguing new construction is either legal or necessary for security. In winter 1987, Palestinians begin mass protests of Israel's ongoing occupation. Unrest spreads from Gaza to East Jerusalem and the West Bank. The uprising eventually wound down and led to the 1993 Oslo Accords — the first face-to-face agreement between the government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the representative body of the Palestinian people. With former US President Bill Clinton as a mediator, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin (left) and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat hold peace talks. The result, the Oslo I Accord, is each side's recognition of the other. The agreement leads many to hope that an end to the Israel-Palestine conflict is not far off, but peace initiatives suffer a major setback when Rabin is assassinated two years later. A right-wing Jewish fanatic shoots and kills Rabin on November 4, 1995, while he is leaving a peace rally in Tel Aviv. Rabin's assassination throws the spotlight on Israel's internal social strife. The divide is growing between centrist and extremist, secular and religious. The photo shows Israel's then-acting prime minister, Shimon Peres, next to the empty chair of his murdered colleague. Nazi Germany's mass murder of Jews weighs on German-Israeli relations to this day. In February 2000, then German President Johannes Rau addresses the Knesset, Israel's parliament, in German. It is a tremendous emotional challenge for both sides, especially for Holocaust survivors and their descendants, but also a step towards closer relations after unforgettable crimes. In 2002, amid the violence and terror of the Second Intifada, Israel starts building a 107-kilometer-long (67-mile-long) barrier of barbed wire, concrete wall and guard towers between itself and Palestinian areas of the West Bank. It suppresses the violence but does not solve the larger political conflict. The wall grows in length over the years and is projected to reach around 700 kilometers. Germany's current foreign minister, Heiko Maas, steps decisively into an ever closer German-Israeli relationship. His first trip abroad as the country's top diplomat is to Israel in March 2018. At the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial and museum in Jerusalem, he lays a wreath in memory of Holocaust victims. Author: Kersten Knipp Israeli forces have killed 34 Palestinians and wounded hundreds more since the protests began on March 30. Israel has accused Hamas of organizing the protests. There have been no Israeli casualties. Palestinian organizers have called the series of protests the "Great March of Return" beginning on Land Day, March 30, and continuing until May 15, the 70th anniversary of the "Nakba" - or the "catastrophe" - when 750,000 Palestinians were forced out of their homes and off their land by Israeli forces in 1948. In his Independence Day remarks, Netanyahu said that no one would "extinguish" the light of Israel. "All the ancient peoples who were exiled from their lands vanished and scattered all over the place. Only we, the Jewish people, who were like a leaf blown away in the storm of exile, refused to disappear and remained faithful to Zion," he said. cw/rc (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)