A German court on Wednesday convicted two Romanian men of killing a goat at a petting zoo in Berlin in February, an act they committed because they were hungry, the court heard. One of the men, who had a previous conviction for theft, was sentenced to 10 months in prison and his accomplice to nine months, both without parole. The judge said that the men had killed an animal for no good reason and that due to the men not having permanent residency in Germany and no certain income they did not have a favorable social future. The two Romanians, both 29, broke into the petting zoo in Berlin's Hasenheide park on February 18. One killed "Lilly” the Angora goat while the other kept lookout. Read more: Spain's wildlife emergency room They were caught by police, who had been alerted to the incident by residents who heard animal cries. One of the men was found carrying a knife, and officers also found a rucksack containing a goat's leg and bloody gloves not far from the scene. Killed due to hunger At the trial, the two men testified that they had killed the goat because they were hungry. They admitted to killing the animal in court, but said they only slaughtered the goat because they had not eaten for several days, the Berlin Morgen Post reported. Both men had come to Berlin in January and had jobs as construction workers, but their wages had been withheld by their employer. Read more: The don'ts and don'ts of keeping exotic pets The Berlin court heard that the men had thought the petting zoo was a farm, and that both men had grown up on farms in Romania where it was common practise to raise and slaughter animals, according to the Berlin Morgen Post. They added that they knew how to slaughter animals without causing them to suffer. Animals in captivity may suffer different injuries, but vets take care of all that. Here, they are applying cream to a red kite's feet. The bird was shot, illegally, but is recovering very well and might soon be flying again. Despite all these activities and the close human contact, the vets say this bird will be able to re-adapt perfectly to life in the wild. Physiotherapy sessions are key to the recovery of most patients in the wildlife hospital. By the time their wounds have healed, their muscles have become weak and they are unable to walk or fly freely in the wild. Massages and stretching are not pleasant for the red kite, but it still stays calm. In a few weeks it will feel strong again. Let's hope it stays far enough away from humans with guns. After the foot massage and a physiotherapy session, the red kite is feeding normally, back in its room. This is a good sign, the vets say. It's a majestic-looking creature, but its food is a bit off-putting. It gets baby male chickens. They have been separated from females, killed with CO2, frozen and sold. At least here in the wildlife hospital, they are used for a good cause. Have you ever seen a black stork? They are quite rare - and extremely beautiful. They breed mainly in Spain - and of course they are also among GREFA's hospital patients. Most birds arriving at the hospital are victims of collisions or have been electrocuted by power lines. Unfortunately, many of them are so badly hurt that they cannot be released back into the wild. In the reptilarium, European and Spanish pond turtles share the room with all kind of tortoises, snakes and lizards. But no worries, each of them has its own private sphere! Most of them were unable to hibernate. Mostly, it's because they were undernourished. After the winter they will hopefully be released into nature or enjoy the sun in one of the hospital's ponds. Abandoned turtles are amongst the animals that have trouble hibernating. In captivity, they often don't get enough sunlight or adequate food and are therefore not prepared for hibernation when left alone in the wild. Some species brought from abroad may also represent a threat to local species such as the European pond turtle, highly threatened in most European countries. This black-headed gull is very weak, but much better than when it arrived. After some very serious food poisoning, it was almost unable to stand up, or even move its feet or react to anything. Obviously, it couldn't eat either. It has recovered very well and the vets are very optimistic that it will soon be set free. This small gull is much weaker and is still in the intensive care unit. It needs hydration, and also needs antibiotics and other medicines to avoid vomiting and nausea. It will stay in the hospital until the toxin is completely eliminated and it recovers its strength through vitamins. The process may still take a while, but the chances of success are high. In GREFA's wildlife hospital, children learn about the threats to wildlife — and how to protect it. Here they are watching how an enormous black vulture gets ringed and measured before being sent back to join its mates in the Pyrenees. This process is part of a conservation project that has already seen very successful results in Spain. A century ago, black vultures were almost extinct in Spain - one of its few homes. Through conservation efforts the vultures are now flying again in the blue skies of the Pyrenees. This one will carry a transmitter on its back to track its movements. Despite its huge size, the vets could treat the animal without any kind of anesthetic - but with a lot of care. Wow!! (Author: Irene Banos-Ruiz) Author: Irene Banos Ruiz law/jm (AFP, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 