The United States singled out China, Russia, Iran and North Korea for human rights abuses, labeling their governments as "forces of instability" in an annual human rights report released on Friday. Commenting on the State Department global human rights report for 2017, acting Secretary of State John Sullivan also criticized the governments of Syria, Turkey, Myanmar and Venezuela for human rights abuses. The State Department report is considered the most comprehensive account of the global human rights situation, covering some 200 countries and territories. "States that restrict freedoms of expression and peaceful assembly; that allow and commit violence against members of religious, ethnic, and other minority groups; or that undermine the fundamental dignity of persons are morally reprehensible and undermine our interests," Sullivan said in the preface of the report. Read more: How much does the EU care about human rights? UN human rights chief paints bleak picture of violations around the globe Amnesty International cites omissions Critics of the United States have accused the Trump administration of downplaying human rights promotion as a foreign policy goal, and pointed to the president's own comments on refugees, migrants and the media as areas of concern. This year's report also changes language on reproductive rights and discrimination. National director of advocacy and governmental relations at Amnesty International USA, Joanne Lin commented: "From the beginning, this administration has sent the message that the United States will no longer prioritize efforts to hold the global community to account for human rights. Reports of the omission of key passages pertaining to sexual and reproductive rights, women's rights and the rights of marginalized populations, combined with the Administration's deference to known human rights violators like the governments of Saudi Arabia and Turkey, make us skeptical that these reports present a full picture of human rights around the world." Michael Kozak, a senior State Department official who helped oversee the report, told reporters that there was no US hypocrisy. "I think we make quite a distinction between political leaders being able to speak out and say, 'That story was not accurate,' or using even stronger words sometimes, and using state power to prevent the journalists from continuing to do their work," Kozak said. "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights." In 30 articles, the peoples of the United Nations reaffirmed through the charter, their determination "to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom." Everyone all over the world is entitled to rights and freedoms - regardless of "race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status." "Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person." (3) "No one shall be held in slavery or servitude." (4) "No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment." (5) Every human being has the right to a fair trial and to be protected by law (6, 8, 10, 12). The right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. (11) "All are equal before the law" (7) and "No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile." (9). "Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state. Everyone has the right to leave any country." (13). "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution." (14). "Everyone has the right to a nationality." (15). Men and women of full age have the same rights preceeding, during and following marriage, which "shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses." While the family, which is the "natural and fundamental group unit of society" is entitled to "protection by society and the State." "Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others." And "no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property." "Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion," (18). "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression." (19). "Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association." (20). "Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives." (21). A member of society has the "right to social security" and is entitled to the "economic, social and cultural rights indispensible for his dignity and the free development of his personality." (22). "Everyone has the right to work". Moreover, the right "to equal pay for equal work" and "to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests." (23). "Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay." (24). (Foto: Arbeitslose im Jobcenter Gelsenkirchen, Deutschland, 5.1.2016) "Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services." And "motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance." "Everyone hast he right to education," which at elementary level is compulsory for everyone. "Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights". "Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits." In addition, "the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author." Digital reproduction of artistic works remains controversial. "Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized." (28) "Everyone has duties to the community." (29) And no State, group or person has the right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms" within the declaration. (30) China The report described China as an authoritarian state where the government was responsible for arbitrary detention, torture and executions without due process, among other human rights abuses. It noted significant restrictions on freedom of speech, press, assembly, association, religion, and movement, as well as repressive practices against the Muslim Uighur minority and Tibetans. Russia The report cites deteriorating human rights in eastern Ukraine, where Moscow backs rebels, and annexed Ukraine's Crimea. It also criticized state sponsored violence against LGBTI persons in Chechnya. The most significant human rights issues in Russia included extrajudicial killings, "systematic" torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, lack of judicial independence and political prisoners. It also noted restrictions on freedom of expression and the media. Read more: Russia committing 'grave human rights violations' in Crimea – UN North Korea North Korea's government carried out "egregious human rights" violations in nearly every category, the report said. Extrajudicial killings, torture, political prison camps, forced labor and a host of other restrictions on every aspect of life were highlighted. Read more: Is the world ignoring North Korea's 'crimes against humanity'? Syria The report refers to the human rights situation in Syria as "horrendous." It pointed to a litany of "atrocities" committed by the government during the war there, including "the repeated use of chemical weapons, including sarin and chlorine, against civilians, widespread ‘barrel bombing' of civilians and residential areas, systematic attacks on civilian infrastructure, attacks on medical facilities, extrajudicial executions, rape, including of children, as a weapon of war; massacres, starvation and displacement of local civilian populations; mass forced disappearances; thousands of cases of torture," among other violations. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uL6n Myanmar "Ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya minority in Rakhine State occurred during the year," the report stated. In addition to atrocities in Rakhine state, the most significant human rights abuses included arbitrary arrest, unlawful killings, politically motivated arrests and restrictions on media, including the arrest of journalists. Read more: Myanmar bulldozed scores of Rohingya villages, says human rights group Turkey The report noted with concern the detention of tens of thousands of people, including members of parliament and journalists, under an ongoing state of emergency in place since a failed 2016 military coup. The most significant human rights abuses included alleged torture, forced disappearances and arbitrary arrest and detention, while the report noted "executive interference with independence of the judiciary." It also said elections were held in a restrictive environment. Venezuela The report said Venezuela's "democratic governance and human rights deteriorated dramatically during the year as the result of a campaign of the Maduro administration to consolidate its power." The executive branch is increasingly authoritarian and "exercising significant control over the legislative, judicial, citizens', and electoral branches of government." Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.