The European Commission on Tuesday announced that its officials "carried out unannounced inspections" of sports media rights companies in several countries within the bloc. "The Commission has concerns that the companies involved may have violated EU antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices," it said in a statement. "Officials were accompanied by their counterparts from the relevant national competition authorities." Read more: Werder Bremen's Robert Bauer asks for footballers to also be seen as humans The EU executive body did not name which companies were targeted in the raids. However, Fox Networks Group said earlier on Tuesday that it was cooperating with authorities after British newspaper The Telegraph reported raids on its London offices. "Fox Networks Group is cooperating fully with the (European Commission) inspection," said a spokesman for the media group. Officials reportedly seized documents and company records. Sports broadcasting rights are often worth billions of euros, especially in football Big games, big business According to the EU, sports media and intellectual property have "wide-ranging implications for the economy and organization of sport." Although EU regulation on competition within the bloc does not specifically target sports as a domain, it can have "an important impact on the way sport events are broadcast or transmitted over networks." Over the past decade, sports media rights have come under increased scrutiny due to the magnitude of financial resources poured into the industry. Read more: 100 things to know ahead of the 2018 World Cup in Russia In 2017, BT Sport purchased the rights to broadcast Champions League football matches until 2021 in a deal worth 1.18 billion British pounds (1.35 billion, $1.67 billion). The year before, Sky News secured the rights to broadcast Bundesliga games for €3.5 billion under a four-year deal. Last year, media tycoon Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox came under criticism for its attempt to full control of Sky. While the deal worth 11.4 billion British pounds received approval from EU regulators, the British government said the takeover "potentially raises public interest concerns." His transfer to Barcelona from Borussia Dortmund will be the most expensive ever involving a Bundesliga club. Dortmund will receive 105 million euros plus further add-ons. Not bad for a 20-year-old who is not yet the finished article. The 2015-16 Bundesliga season started with a transfer supernova as well. Wolfsburg's talented playmaker left for Manchester City for a reported 74 million euros. At the time, no German team had ever earned that much from a player sale. Keita signed with Leipzig from Salzburg for 15-million-euro fee, but he will only wind up playing two seasons in Germany. Why? Because Liverpool are set to acquire him after the 2017-18 season for a reported total of 70 million euros. That's a pretty good profit for the Red Bull machine. The following summer saw another Bundesliga club cash in on one of their young talents, as Leroy Sané moved from Schalke to Manchester City. The fee for the Germany player was reported to be north of 50 million euros. Switzerland international Granit Xhaka was a nice little earner for Borussia Mönchengladbach in the summer of 2017. Having moved to Gladbach from Basel for around 8.5 million euros in 2012, the Foals sold him on to Arsenal for a reported 45 million euros. Having joined Wolfsburg from Schalke a year earlier, in the summer of 2016, Julian Draxler decided he didn't want to play there either. He went through the motions for the first half of the season. In January 2017 he got his wish - a move to PSG worth a reported 40 million euros. It looks to have been a losing proposition for Wolfsburg, as they are thought to have paid 43 million for him. Are those euro signs in Borussia Dortmund chairman Hans-Joachim Watzke's eyes? Henrikh Mkhitaryan, who had joined the Ruhr district club from Shakhtar Donetsk for 27.5 million in 2013, moved on to Manchester United for a reported 42 million euros in the summer of 2016. Bayern Munich broke their own transfer record with the 41.5 million euro purchase of French midfielder Corentin Tolisso from Lyon in June 2017, making him the most expensive player ever to be brought into the Bundesliga. For a short time, Brazilian Roberto Firmino held the record for the biggest sale of a Bundesliga player. In the summer of 2015, Liverpool paid Hoffenheim 41 million euros for his services. Bayern Munich splashed 40 million euros to acquire Javi Martinez from Athletic Bilbao, but it turned out to be money well spent. Martinez helped the Bavarians win five straight Bundesliga titles, the first of which came as part of a European treble. In retrospect, Bayern didn't need to fork out millions for Mats Hummels. The Munich native played for the Bavarian giants in his youth days. He was loaned out and then sold to Dortmund for a reported 4.2 million euros before heading back to Bayern eight years later for 38 million euros. Quite a misjudgement, one maybe only Bayern is able to afford. Munich raiding Dortmund has become something of a recent tradition. In 2013, Bayern paid 37 million euros to prise Mario Götze away from their rivals. The Germany World Cup winner has now gone back the other way. Like so many former Bayer Leverkusen stars, Arturo Vidal too found his way to Bayern Munich, but unlike most others, he first took a detour to northern Italy. First, Leverkusen sold him to Juventus for 12.5 million euros in 2011. Then in the summer of 2015 he returned to Germany for a reported 37 million euros. Bosnian international Edin Dzeko is also thought to have cost 37 million euros when he moved from Wolfsburg to Manchester City in the 2010-11 winter transfer window. The product of Zeljeznicar's youth academy has since moved on to Roma. It's hard to believe a 35-million-euro transfer can be overshadowed, but that's precisely what Bayern's deal with Benfica for 19-year-old Renato Sanches was. Amidst all the fuss over Hummels, the Portugese wunderkind was almost something of an afterthought. Wolfsburg dug deep to repatriate André Schürrle from England, paying Premier League side Chelsea 32 million euros to acquire his services. However, he didn't last long in the Autostadt, as the Wolves sold him on to Borussia Dortmund in July 2016. Wolfsburg made a minor loss, as BVB were only prepared to pay a reported 30 million. It's not just goal scorers who can fetch a pretty price on the transfer market. In 2011, Bayern Munich invested a reported 30 million euros to lure national team goalkeeper away from the club he grew up with, Schalke. Until then no Bundesliga team had spent anything approaching that figure on a goalkeeper. He is clever, he's good with his feet and he is a World Cup winner. That's why Real Madrid saw fit to spend 30 million euros on the purchase of Toni Kroos from Bayern Munich in 2014. Then again, that was chump change for a club that had already spent more than 90 million euros each on Ronaldo and and Gareth Bale. ls/se (Reuters, AFP)