Catalan separatist and the former head of the regional government Carles Puigdemont paid bail on Friday, allowing him to walk out of jail after he was arrested last month on a European warrant. After walking out of jail, Puigdemont called for the release of so-called political prisoners in Spain, notably those who were arrested for their involvement in the Catalan independence referendum. "I call for the immediate release for all of my colleagues still in Spanish prisons," he said in English. "It's a shame for Europe to still have political prisoners." "The time for dialogue has arrived," he declared, condemning the "violent and repressive response" the push for secession has received from the Spanish government. Puigdemont also thanked the German authorities for "their professionality and for their respect," and thanked his fellow inmates for "their solidarity and help for me to adapt quickly to the situation." Blow to Madrid Spanish authorities had issued an arrest warrant against Puigdemont for his involvement in a controversial Catalan independence referendum. Read more: Opinion: Carles Puigdemont belongs in Spanish court In a blow to Spanish authorities, a German court on Wednesday refused to extradite him on charges of high treason, the closest German legal equivalent to Spain's most serious charge of rebellion. Extradition still on the table However, Puigdemont may yet face extradition on separate charges of misusing government funds during his time in office. The Schleswig prosecutor's office said Puigdemont was given an address in Germany, where he will reside until judges decide on Spain's extradition request. Read more: Catalan independence: What you need to know "No information will be provided about his current whereabouts," said prosecutors in a statement. At a press conference, a German government spokeswoman reiterated Berlin's position that it will not interfere in the judicial process, saying: "The proceedings are in the judiciary's hands." Catalonia has been settled by the Phoenicians, the Etruscans and the Greeks, who were mainly in the coastal areas of Rosas and Empuries (above). Then came the Romans, who built more settlements and infrastructure. Catalonia remained a part of the Roman Empire until it was conquered by the Visigoths in the fifth century. Catalonia was conquered by Arabs in 711 AD. The Frankish king Charlemagne stopped their advance at Tours on the Loire River and, by 759, the north of Catalonia was once again Christian. In 1137, the counties that made up Catalonia entered an alliance with the Crown of Aragon. In the 13th century, the institutions of Catalan self-administration were created under the banner of the Generalitat de Catalunya. After the unification of the Crown of Aragon with that of Castile in 1476, Aragon was largely able to keep its autonomic institutions. However, the Catalan revolt — from 1640 to 1659 — saw parts of Catalonia ceded to present-day France. After the conquest of Barcelona on September 11, 1714, by the Bourbon King Phillip V, Catalan instuitutions were dissolved and self-administration came to an end. Every year, on September 11, Catalans commemorate the end of their right to autonomy. After the abdication of King Amadeo I of Spain, the first Spanish Republic was declared in February 1873. It lasted barely a year. The supporters of the Republic were split – one group supporting the idea of a centralized republic, the others wanting a federal system. Pictured here is Francisco Pi i Maragall, a supporter of federalism and one of five presidents of the short-lived republic. Catalonia sought to establish a new state within the Spanish republic, but this only served to exacerbate the differences between republicans, ultimately dividing and weakening them. In 1874, the monarchy and the House of Bourbon (led by King Alfonso XII, pictured here) took the helm. Between 1923 — with the support of the monarchy, the army and the church — General Primo de Rivera declared a dictatorship. Catalonia became a center of opposition and resistance. After the end of the dictatorship, the politician Francesc Macia (pictured here) successfully pressed for important rights of autonomy for Catalonia. In the Second Spanish Republic, Catalan lawmakers worked on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. This was approved by the Spanish parliament in 1932. Francesc Macia was elected president of the Generalitat of Catalonia by the Catalan parliament. However, the victory of Franco at the end of the Spanish Civil War (1936 to 1939) put an end to all that. The Franco regime ruled with an iron rod. Political parties were banned and the Catalan language and culture were surpressed. After the first parliamentary elections that followed the end of the Franco dictatorship, the Generalitat of Catalonia was provisionally restored. Under the democratic Spanish constitution of 1978, Catalonia was given a new Statute of Autonomy just a year later. The new Statute of Autonomy recognized the autonomy of Catalonia and the importance of the Catalan language. In comparison to the 1932 statute, it was enhanced in the fields of culture and education but curtailed when it came to the realm of justice. Pictured here is Jordi Pujol, the long-time head of the government of Catalonia after the dictatorship. A desire for independence has grown stronger in recent years. In 2006, Catalonia was given a new statute that broadened the Catalan government's powers. However, it lost these after a complaint by the conservative Popular Party to the Constitutional Court of Spain. A referendum on independence was already envisaged for November 9, 2014. The first question was "Do you want Catalonia to become a state?" In the case of an affirmative answer, the second question was posed: "Do you want this state to be independent?" However, the Constitutional Court suspended the vote. Since January 2016, Carles Puigdemont has been president of the Catalan government. He proceeded with the separatist course of his predecessor Artur Mas and called the new referendum for October 1, 2017. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy dismissed this as unconstitutional. Author: Richard Connor Fractured independence movement Last year, the Catalan government orchestrated an independence referendum, which was outlawed by Spain's Supreme Court. The referendum saw just 40 percent voter turnout and was marred by police violence at some polling stations. Those who did vote overwhelmingly favored secession. Read more: Catalan independence: Challenges ahead for Puigdemont and secessionist political unity After the election, Catalan lawmakers declared unilateral independence from Spain. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's conservative government responded by dissolving the regional parliament and calling snap elections. Since December's regional election, Catalan's separatist parties have failed to agree on a government, preventing them from further pursuing their independence agenda. Infighting has witnessed parties aligned with the separatist movement fracture despite retaining a combined absolute majority in the regional parliament. ls,es/msh (Reuters, dpa)