Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has presented what he claimed was proof that Iran had broken the terms of the nuclear deal signed in 2015 with major world powers. Netanyahu said he was prepared to share the "incriminating" files on Iran's nuclear weapons program, "Project Amad." He said Israel recently uncovered 55,000 documents and 183 CDs from Iran's "nuclear archives." Later on Monday, US President Donald Trump said he had watched the presentation. Describing it as "good," Trump said the televised statement and other recent events showed that he, Trump, had been "100 percent right" about Iran. Responding to Netanyahu's allegations, the White House said in a statement: "These facts are consistent with what the United States has long known: Iran had a robust, clandestine nuclear weapons program that it has tried and failed to hide from the world and from its own people." New Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also said Monday as he flew back from Israel that the US "has known about this material for a while" but that thousands of documents were new. "We certainly discussed this material yesterday when we were together," he said, referring to his meeting on Sunday with Netanyahu. Pompeo countered allegations that the Israeli-collected documents were not authentic. "I can confirm with you, for you, that these documents are real, they are authentic," he said. The US administration has indicated it plans to back out of the Iran nuclear deal in the coming days. Main points of the presentation Speaking in English in the nationally televised address, the Israeli premier claimed: Iran dismisses announcement as 'propaganda' Iran has questioned the legitimacy of the demands for changes to the nuclear deal, saying it has respected the accord. Tehran has dismissed Israel's allegations, suggesting they were timed to influence the upcoming US review of sanctions. The state-run IRNA news agency said Monday that Netanyahu is "famous for ridiculous shows." The semi-official Fars news agency labeled the Israeli leader's speech as a "propaganda show." Middle East analyst Daniel Gerlach told DW that most of the information Netanyahu was referring to was from before the Iran deal was concluded, and said some of the information presented by the prime minister had previously been contradicted by the IAEA and Netanyahu's own intelligence services. But "it's not important so much what the information is about, it's important what kind of decision Donald Trump will take next week," Gerlach said. European support for nuclear deal Israel has repeatedly called for the 2015 nuclear deal to be altered or scrapped, but the leaders of Germany, France and Britain have confirmed their support for it. The EU's top diplomat Federica Mogherini issued a statement after the presentation saying Netanyahu's allegations don't appear to show that Iran is currently violating the terms of the deal. She added that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) must be the one to assess whether Tehran is sticking to the deal. "If any party and if any country has information of non-compliance, of any kind, it can and should address and channel this information to the proper, legitimate, recognized mechanisms, the IAEA and the Joint Commission [of the JCPOA] for the monitoring of the nuclear deal." Reacting to Netanyahu's presentation on Monday, the German government said the IAEA must assess the Israeli information on Iran's alleged nuclear activities immediately. A spokesman said Germany would analyze the information: "It is clear that the international community had doubts that Iran was carrying out an exclusively peaceful nuclear program." "It was for this reason the nuclear accord was signed in 2015, including the implementation of an unprecedented, thorough and robust surveillance system by the IAEA," the spokesman said. Both Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron were in Washington last week and both are believed to have raised the issue with Trump. The British government has "never been naive about Iran and its nuclear intentions," a spokesman said in a statement. The UK also urged, however, that the IAEA is essential to "independently verifying" allegations about Iran's nuclear program. Last August, the UN nuclear watchdog gave Iran the all-clear on its stock of low-enriched uranium. The 2015 Iran nuclear deal In a political agreement signed in July 2015 by Iran with six world powers — the US, under former President Barack Obama, Germany, China, France, Russia and Britain — Tehran agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for relief from nuclear-related US and international sanctions. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) lifted sanctions in exchange for verifiable curbs on Iran's nuclear program for at least 10 to 15 years. US Congressional deadlines require the US president to periodically review whether Washington should continue to suspend sanctions, or re-impose them. The next deadline falls on May 12. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wsZn cmb, rs, jm/cmk (Reuters, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.