Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag told Haberturk television that Turkey's National Intelligence Organization (MIT) has captured 80 citizens accused of following the US-based Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen in operations in 18 countries. The figure of 80 disclosed by Bozdag on Thursday runs much higher than previously assumed and indicates that the MIT has ordered people taken in the past without publishing the information. He did not divulge the operational details or say which countries. Read more: From ally to scapegoat: Fethullah Gulen, the man behind the myth Turkish officials have chased members of the Gulen movement domestically and abroad ever since accusing the cleric of masterminding the 2016 attempt to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. His government has arrested about 38,000 people accused of links to Gulen and fired 110,000 public servants since the coup attempt, which resulted in more than 250 deaths. Erdogan's government has also vowed to wipe out Gulen's influence abroad, where it has built up a network of schools. Authorities in Ankara have pressured counterparts to close Gulenist schools and extradite staff members with Turkish citizenship, branding them as terrorists. March's deportations from Kosovo, which drew sharp criticism from human rights groups, were carried out so quietly that even top officials — including Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj — did not know about them until after the fact. Haradinaj fired the country's interior minister and intelligence chief for their deception but, for the extradited men, five teachers and a doctor who worked in schools and a clinic supported by Gulen's movement, the damage had already been done. March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. Tolu and Steudtner have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier No illegal abductions Ibrahim Kalin, President Erdogan's press secretary, denies that the government has ordered illegal abductions. He insists, for example, that authorities had worked out an arrangement with their counterparts in Kosovo to extradite the six men secretly and without process. "We have never engaged in any illegal act in our struggle against (Gulen's movement)," Kalin said. "The event in Kosovo took place ... within the framework of an agreement on the return of criminals." Without disclosing details, Bozdag trumpeted the events in Kosovo as an example of the MIT's success. He also pledged that "intelligence service operations similar to that in Kosovo will continue." Turkey remains under a state of emergency, which Bozdag expects officials to extend. Officials in Ankara have also targeted journalists since the coup. Many civil servants and diplomats have sought sanctuary in countries abroad, often in Germany, to escape what they consider to be an increasingly repressive state. mkg/ng (AFP, dpa, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of news and features. You can sign up to receive it here.