45'+2 HT Leverkusen 1-2 Bayern. A breathless first half in Leverkusen! Two goals inside the opening 10 minutes had Bayern cruising, but Bender's header has halved the advantage. Big second half coming up. 45' Two additional minutes here. 44' The home fans making a racket and so they should. Their side have shown great character to fight back, and Heiko Herrlich will be satisfied if he can get them back into the locker room at 2-1. 42' Martinez leaps high at a free.kick, but nods just wide. Martinez has been a thorn in Leverkusen's side so far. 38' Incidentally, this is Ulreich's 50th appearance for Bayern tonight. 37' WHAT A SAVE! Huge save from Ulreich, low to his right! Bellarabi spanks a shot at goal and it seems destined for the bottom corner, but Ulreich gets a fine hand on it. Great shot, stunning save! 36' Boateng forced into some emergency defending as Havertz gets into the box and forces a corner off the Germany defender. 33' ... but Thiago's free-kick comes to nothing. 32' Some wonderful skill by Ribery before he is upended in a dangerous position on the left... 30' Martinez picks out Kimmich with a fine lofted ball and the young Germany star whips a fine ball across the face of the Leverkusen goal, that is sensibly turned out for a corner. 28' Worth keeping in mind... 25' A great tempo to the game. Bayern still enjoying the better of the contest but both sides pushing forward at every opportunity. This is shaping up to be a memorable contest. 22' Leverkusen playing with a lot more freedom than you'd expect of a side who have conceded two goals to Bayern Munich inside the first ten minutes. 19' That was a crucial strike for Leverkusen, who had been totally overrun. But the crowd is upbeat again and the task for the hosts now is to stay in the contest for as long as possible. 16' GOAL! Leverkusen 1-2 Bayern (L. Bender 16') Leverkusen have one back! Bayern fail to clear, Havertz's shot is blocked, and Bender is on hand on nod in from close range. We have a game again! 12' Do Leverkusen have an answer here? It's a long, long road back from here. 9' GOAL! Leverkusen 0-2 Bayern (Lewandowski 9') It's two and Leverkusen already in big, big trouble. Good work by Ribery and Lewandowski prods home. Game over? 6' Bayern all over Leverkusen here. The hosts just can't settle against a Bayern side who are raring to go. 3' GOAL! Leverkusen 0-1 Bayern (Martinez 3') Well, that didn't take long! Martinez thrashes the ball in on the rebound and, after some conversation between the officials about whether it was offside, the goal has been given. 1' PEEEEEP! We're underway in Leverkusen! 20.40 James Rodriguez is on the bench for Bayern, but that means a start for Thiago Alcanatara in midfield. Rodriguez being given as much rest as possible ahead of that even more crucial Champions League semifinal against Real Madrid. 20.35 Here's how the teams line up at BayArena... 20.30 Hello! Welcome to live coverage of tonight's GermanCup semifinal between Bayer Leverkusen and Bayern Munich! Kick off is just 15 minutes away.