Nikol Pashinian is a man who until recently was hardly known to anyone outside Armenia. He sees Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's resignation this week as an important first step toward reforming the country, and now he wants parliament to make him Armenia's new leader in early May. Pashinian has repeatedly stated during rallies it is what the people want, and until then, the protests will continue. Who exactly is the man who emerged from relative obscurity to become the star of Armenia's protest movement? And what does he stand for? From a march to mass protests Back in March, Pashinian, who serves as leader of liberal opposition coalition Jelk (Way Out), which won just 7.7 percent of the vote in last year's parliamentary elections, embarked on a long journey. Together with a handful of supporters, the 42-year-old set off from Gyumri, Armenia's second largest city, on a two-week march to protest Sargsyan's plan to run for prime minster — after having already served for 10 years as the country's president. Sargsyan's candidacy, which he had previously promised not to pursue, was made possible through a 2015 constitutional amendment that transformed Armenia's political system from a semi-presidential into a parliamentary republic. Pashinian was a prominent figure during the street protests in Yerevan Fiercely opposed to this, Pashinian and his backers took the protest march throughout the country, until finally reaching the capital, Yerevan, in mid-April. The movement began to grow, and when Sargsyan was elected as prime minster on April 17, mass protests ensued. Tens of thousands of angry Armenians took to the streets, bringing Yerevan to a standstill. The protests, which remained peaceful, ultimately forced Sargsyan to step down. It did not take long before people began referring to the event as Armenia's "non-violent velvet revolution." Pashinian's long fight Pashinian's opposition to Sargsyan dates back much earlier than March of this year, however. He began his career as a journalist in the 1990s before transitioning into politics. He ran for parliament in 2007, but his party failed to win any seats. Pashinian worked as a journalist before entering politics Pashinian's emergence on the political stage marked his opposition to Sargsyan, an entrenched political elite who had for decades shaped Armenian politics, first serving as a minister, then prime minister and ultimately president. When Sargsyan won his first term as president in 2008, a protest followed. Its violent suppression left 10 people dead. Pashinian was blamed as one of the instigators and was jailed for more than a year. After he was freed, Pashinian proceeded to switch parties and was voted into parliament in 2012 and 2017. That same year, he ran in Yerevan's mayoral election, securing 21 percent of the vote as the runner-up. Read more: Armenians must forge their own future According to Armenian political expert Ruben Megrabjan, Pashinian is the protest movement's unrivaled leader. "He was at the right place and the right time, and got the ball rolling," he says, pointing out that people followed Pashinian's initiative not because of his popularity, but because "the situation in Armenia had become unbearable." Pashinian and his backers say they are out to reform the country and unseat the ruling Republican Party, which is blamed for Armenia's rampant corruption and widespread poverty. Native protest movement Unlike in Ukraine, the Armenian protests are not viewed as being connected to country's relationship with Russia or the European Union. Armenia remains a close ally of Moscow and relies on it for protection, especially with regard to its conflict with neighboring Azerbaijan over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region. In 2013, Armenia backed out of EU association talks and instead joined the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), a bloc of former Soviet republics under Russian leadership. Pashinian and the protesters ultimately forced Sargsyan out of office Pashinian recently told Russian newspaper RBK that the current protest movement was not a result of "any kind of geopolitical context." His election program, however, seems to contradict this claim at least somewhat. It calls for closer ties with the EU, and even considers the possibility of leaving the EAEU. Read more: Serzh Sargsyan resignation a blow to Russia foreign policy For now, Pashinian is focusing all his energy on domestic politics. He wants to take advantage of the momentum behind the street protests, but his status as Armenia's opposition leader has a flipside, too. Pashinian's coalition does not have sufficient support in parliament to command a majority, and is still dependent on backing from the previous ruling coalition, which fell apart after Sargsyan's resignation. If Pashinian fails to gain enough parliamentary support to become prime minister and fresh elections are called, he has said that his party may boycott the vote and urge Armenians to protest once more. After the initial victory of Sargsyan's ouster, the country may be gearing up for a protracted power struggle. Serzh Sargsyan, who ruled Armenia for 10 years, tendered his resignation after widespread public demonstrations against his attempts to hold onto power. The Armenian government named former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, an ally of Sargsyan, as acting premier. The protests were sparked by Sargsyan's move to extend his rule. The 63-year-old was president of Armenia from 2008 until a term limit forced him out in March. But the parliament, which is controlled by ruling Republican Party, installed him as prime minister in April and curbed the powers of the president. The shift to a strengthened parliamentary triggered massive anti-government protests in the capital of Yerevan on April 13, with thousands of people participating in rolling demonstrations against Sargsyan. Hundreds of Armenian soldiers also joined the protests. The parliament's move to keep Sargsyan in power echoed a maneuver by Russian President Vladimir Putin a decade ago. Leaders in several former Soviet republics have used similar methods to remain in power. Acting PM Karapetian too has close ties with Russia. He worked in Russia for five years as a senior executive of state-controlled gas giant Gazprom. Protesters in the capital Yerevan took to the streets to celebrate Sargsyan's resignation. A day after Sargsyan stepped down, the country's opposition called for a meeting with the caretaker prime minister to discuss a "peaceful transfer of power." In this photo, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian (R) is seen in a meeting with Sargsyan on April 22, urging him to step down. Russia, Armenia's closest ally, said on April 24 that it was not concerned about the political situation in Yerevan. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said he did not regard Armenia's political tumult as a Ukraine-style revolt against pro-Russia politicians. However, according to analysts, Sargsyan's resignation has unsettled Russian interests in Armenia. Armenia's parliament will vote for a new premier on May 1. Pashinian has said he is prepared to be a candidate, but it is unclear if he will get support. The ruling Republican Party holds a majority in parliament. Author: Shamil Shams (with AP, dpa, Reuters)