Israeli forces shot dead four Palestinians protesting on the Gaza-Israel border fence Friday as rolling weekly protests entered their fourth week. Palestinian health officials said 156 Palestinians were also wounded by Israeli gunfire, bring the total number of wounded in the past month to more than 1,600. Among those killed by Israeli snipers Friday was a 15-year-old boy. UN Middle East envoy Nickolay Mladenov called the shooting of the child "outrageous." Palestinian organizers have called the weekly Friday protests the "Great March of Return" beginning on Land Day, March 30, and continuing until May 15, the 70th anniversary of the "Nakba" - or the "catastrophe" - when 750,000 Palestinians were forced out of their homes and off their land by Israeli forces in 1948. The demonstrators have been calling for Israeli security forces to open up the Gaza-Israel border in order to allow Palestinian refugees the right to return to their former lands that are now in Israel. The protests are also aimed showing frustration of 2 million Gazans cramped into the narrow strip of land where a humanitarian crisis in unfolding. US President Donald Trump's decision to move the US embassy to Jerusalem, scheduled for May 15, have also stirred Palestinian anger. Israel has vowed to put an end to attacks and attempts to damage the border fence. It has also accused Hamas of using the protests as a cover to commit acts of violence. An explosive device injured four Israeli soldiers at the border on February 17. Israel responded with air strikes on Hamas targets in Gaza. The UN relief agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA) supplies more than half of the population in the Gaza Strip. It warned on February 25 that famine could hit Gaza within weeks. The US had halted its contributions to the UN agency as a way to urge Palestinians to negotiate with Israel. The agency later said it could continue supplies until July. The convoy of Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah of the West Bank-based Fatah group was targeted as he made a rare visit to Gaza on March 13. The Palestinian Authority said it held Hamas responsible, having failed to provide adequate security. Hamas claimed the attack was aimed at hurting efforts to achieve unity and reconciliation. No one was hurt when explosives were set off at the Gaza-Israel border on March 18 but the Israeli army used air strikes to destroy a Hamas tunnel system. In the following days, a number of Palestinians passed through the damaged fence into Israel. Palestinians in the Gaza Strip announce a major, peaceful demonstration to be held on the border to claim the right to return to lands now held by Israel. Israel refuses the right to return. Some 30,000 Palestinians take part in the first of the demonstrations on March 30, marking Land Day, for the 1976 Arab protests against Israeli plans to expropriate land. Some demonstrators ran at the border fence and 16 were killed by Israeli troops with others injured, and some dying later. A journalist was among those who died after clashes at the border for the second in the series of protests on April 6. A total of nine Palestinians were shot. Speaking on April 9 in the Israeli town of Sderot, near Gaza, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said: "We have one clear and simple rule and we seek to express it constantly: if someone tries to attack you — rise up and attack him. We will not allow, here on the Gaza border, them to hurt us. We will hurt them." The third day of demonstrations on April 13 began with organizers encouraging people to walk on the Israeli flag placed at the protest points near the border. Palestinians ran to help a young man injured during the border protest on April 13. Stones had been thrown at border guards and the Israeli troops fired on the demonstrators. At least 33 Palestinians have died and hundreds have been wounded since the protests began on March 30. The top Hamas leader, Ismail Haniyeh, said Friday that protesters would try to breach the border on May 15. "Our people will outnumber the occupation and force it from our land," he said, referring to Israel. Earlier in the day, Israeli military planes dropped leaflets on Gaza urging Palestinians to stay away from the fence, warning that getting close to the border fence would put their lives in danger. Despite the warning, protesters gathered at sit-in camps along the border, burning effigies of Israeli soldiers. Protesters used catapults, threw stones and burned tires as a smoke screen. On previous Fridays, some demonstrators have strayed closer to the border, throwing stones, Molotov cocktails and burning tires at the fence. They have also begun using kites, sometimes on fire, to fly across the border. The Gaza protests have put international pressure on Israel over its harsh response. Separately, Israeli-American actress Natalie Portman said she would not be heading to Israel to accept $1 million (€1.23 million) prize because of "distressing" events in the country. The Genesis Prize Foundation quoted Portman's represenative as saying:  "Recent events in Israel have been extremely distressing to her and she does not feel comfortable participating in any public events in Israel." The renewed clashes came one day after Israel marked the 70th anniversary of its founding, with the military displays that are a routine part of the annual celebrations. cw,es/rt (AFP, AP, dpa)