Venezuelan photographer Ronaldo Schemidt has won on Thursday the esteemed World Photo Press Award for his powerful image of a protester consumed by fire amid violent clashes with riot police during a protest in Caracas, Venezuela in 2017. Clashes between protesters and the Venezuelan national guard broke out on May 3, 2017, and Salazar was set alight when the gas tank of a motorbike exploded. He survived the incident. Australian photographer Patrick Brown won in the General News — Singles category for "Rohingya Crisis," his haunting image of the bodies of Rohingya refugees laid out on the ground after the boat in which they were attempting to flee Myanmar capsized off the coast of Bangladesh. Of the roughly 100 people on the boat before it capsized, only 17 survived. Read more:

The  world in pictures: How photography revolutionized the press "Waiting for Freedom," by Neil Aldridge from South Africa, won the new Environment category for his image of a blindfolded white rhino that will be released into the wild in Botswana The World Press Photo of the Year, the world's most coveted photojournalism award, honors photographers who have created timeless images that capture an event or issue of fundamental journalistic importance in the last year. In 2018, the World Press Photo jury chose six nominees for the main prize, shortlisting as well photos in eight different categories — including a new environment category. Altogether, 42 photographers from 22 countries were selected and of these, 15 have won previous World Press Photo awards, while 27 are being recognized for the first time. Read more: World Press Photo award winner: Independent journalism is more important than the prize As with every World Press Photo contest, the jury debates the journalistic aspects of the stories as well as the aesthetic and technical dimensions of the image. Jerome Huffer, head chef of the photography department of the French magazine Paris Match and a member of the jury in 2018, hoped the press photo of the year would combine "the fundamentals of photojournalism with a new way of storytelling." He was not disappointed. Click through the picture gallery above to view some of the World Press Photo Award winners this year, while the one below features shots from the 2017 awards. Burhan Ozbilici's image was captured in the seconds after the December 2016 assassination of Andrey Karlov, Russia's ambassador to Turkey. Ozbilici has also been on assignment in Syria, Libya and Egypt. He said he aims "to have the courage to confront a world which has been made rotten by the dishonest and corrupt, in order to try to do some good," according to AFP news agency. This award-winning photo by Jonathan Bachman depicts 28-year-old activist leshia Evans standing her ground during a protest against police brutality in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in July 2016. Activists point to the blatant racism behind the killings of African-Americans by white police officers. Fidel Castro's death grabbed headlines around the world. Tomas Munita's image of the Cuban leader's funeral procession on December 1, 2016 took first prize in the Daily Life, Stories category. Tiejun Wang captured this image of young students doing toe-pressure training at a gymnastics school in Xuzhou, China. The photo won second prize in the Daily Life, Singles category. Sergey Ponomarev's photo won second prize in the General News category. It shows a family fleeing the fighting in Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city, while oil fields burn in the background in November 2016. Santi Palacios's image, which took second prize in the General News, Singles category, shows an 11-year-old girl from Nigeria (left), with her 10-year-old brother on a rescue boat in July 2016. This photo by Brent Stirton won first prize in the Nature, Stories category. It shows a dead black rhino bull that was poached for its horns at Hluhluwe Umfolozi Game Reserve in South Africa. Usain Bolt of Jamaica is shown here smiling as he wins the 100-meter semi-final sprint at the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. The image by Kai Pfaffenbach took third prize in the Sports, Singles category. Author: Louisa Schaefer