Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko discussed forging a new energy co-operation with Turkish officials during a surprise visit to Istanbul on Monday. Poroshenko, who held talks with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said Ukraine was discussing the implementation of a joint energy project, including a "trilateral cooperation between Ukraine, Turkey and Qatar." Read more: Ukraine's Petro Poroshenko aims to redefine eastern conflict The Ukrainian president's trip was not announced in advance by either side. Ukraine is seeking to import liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Qatar to make up for energy shortfalls from its standoff with Russia. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tbpe Poroshenko visited Qatar in March, saying afterwards that the Gulf State was prepared to provide Ukraine with LNG. However, those shipments would have to transit through the Bosporus in Turkey, thereby requiring Ankara's explicit permission. The Turkish government has so far resisted allowing potentially hazardous cargo to pass through its waterways. It was unclear following Monday's talks whether it was prepared to change its mind. According to Turkish officials, Poroshenko and Erdogan met only briefly at Istanbul airport According to a Ukrainian government statement, the two sides also discussed Turkey deploying UN peacekeepers in eastern Ukraine, which is currently occupied by pro-Russian separatist forces, and the fate of the Turkic Tatar minority on the Crimean peninsula, which was annexed by Russia in 2014. The Turkish presidency issued a shorter statement on the talks with Poroshenko, saying the leaders spoke "while standing up" at Istanbul airport ahead of Erdogan's flight to Ankara. Cavusoglu said in a tweet that the two sides discussed "bilateral relations and regional issues" during the Ukrainian president's "one day visit to Istanbul." Ukraine's energy worries Poroshenko's Turkey trip came just a day ahead of Tuesday's scheduled visit to Berlin. There, the Ukrainian president is expected to urge German Chancellor Angela Merkel to abandon the Nord Stream 2 project — a controversial new pipeline that would allow Russia to deliver gas to Germany via the Baltic Sea, rather than transiting through Ukraine. Ukraine is currently the largest energy transit hub for Russian gas flowing into the European Union, although the levels of gas arriving through the central European country have decreased in recent years. Read more: Russia-Ukraine gas dispute: Is Europe under threat? Kyiv fears that a second pipeline would risk of Russia shutting off gas supplies to Ukraine altogether, as the two countries remain stuck in a years-long diplomatic deadlock. Writing in Germany's Handelsblatt newspaper on Monday, Poroshenko said the Nord Stream 2 pipeline would enable to Russia to forge an "economic and energy blockage" against his country. Last month, Ukraine announced it was imposing sanctions on former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder over his support of the Russian government and his $500,000-a-year (€400,000) job on the board of Russian state-owned oil firm Rosneft. Even Norway isn't immune to the falling price of oil. For years, the wealthy Scandinavian nation had fueled its rapid growth with the oil it pumped out of the North Sea. But what once transformed a poor agrarian state into one of the richest countries in the world now has policymakers wondering if it wouldn't be wiser to allocate more resources to Norway's fishing industry. For Russia, the falling price of oil has added insult to injury as its economy is already reeling under Western sanctions. In 2015, economic output in the country shrunk by around 4 percent. As a result, salaries have dropped and the rubel has lost half of its value against the dollar. The news service Bloomberg estimates that 2016 will be another recessionary year for Russia. Nigeria is Africa's largest producer of oil. Before being elected president, Muhammadu Buhari announced that he would increase government spending - but the drop in the price of oil may make that promise impossible to fulfill. The World Bank estimates that three-quarters of the Nigerian state's revenues come from the oil business. Many infrastructure projects are currently on hold. Nigeria's not the only country that calculates its budget based on the price of oil staying high. The result has been a big gap between expected and actual revenues. The price for a barrel of oil has dropped by nearly 75 percent since mid-2014. Many experts currently have little reason to believe the per-barrel price will return to its old level of $120 (110.76 euros) anytime soon. Now that sanctions against Iranian exporters have been lifted, the Islamic Republic plans to ramp up its oil production by half a million barrels a day - putting further pressure on an already oversupplied energy market. Iran, for its part, blames its archrival Saudi Arabia for falling oil prices. Saudi Arabia has refused to curb oil output in order to protect its market share from competition from the US fracking industry and Iran. But now, even the world's largest oil exporter is starting to get a taste of its own medicine. The International Monetary Fund is warning about a massive impending budget deficit. The Saudis want to introduce taxes and slash energy and food subsidies. Like their Saudi counterparts, other oil-rich Gulf statessuch as Qatar, Oman and the United Arab Emirates are also watching their energy reserves dwindle. These regional powers all boast large sovereign wealth funds - but altogether, the six Gulf states have already accumulated a budget deficit worth $260 billion (239.8 billion euros), according to estimates by JP Morgan Chase. Venezuela has the largest oil reserves in the world. For years, the country's socialist government used revenues from the sale of oil to fund its lavish social programs. Now, President Nicolas Maduro has declared a state of emergency for the Venezuelan economy. Popular support for the successor to Hugo Chavez has been slipping for about a year - about as quickly as the price of oil has dropped. Thanks to a boost in shale gas extraction, aka fracking, the US is now the world's largest energy producer. Low oil prices, however, have made fracking widely unprofitable. The US is also one of the largest consumers of energy in the world. While motorists may celebrate having to spend less money at the pump, bigger, gas-guzzling vehicles are gaining in popularity - bad news for the environment. Author: Nicolas Martin Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.