Three former members of the Red Army Faction are still on the run. Last November the Federal Criminal Police issued new photos of the RAF's Ernst-Volker Staub, Burkhard Garweg and Daniela Klette, all of whom went to ground around 1990. A series of robberies in the late 1990s put the authorities back on their trail. These thefts served no apparent political goal: Their only purpose was to finance the fugitives' lives on the run. The RAF is not history, primarily because the murders, bombings and attacks carried out between 1970 and 1998, in which 33 people were killed and more than 200 injured, have not all been solved or explained. It is not history, not least because belated apologies are still stirring up people's emotions: Last autumn, for example, the former RAF member Silke Maier-Witt met the son of Hanns Martin Schleyer and asked for forgiveness for the group's 1977 kidnapping and killing of the executive. The RAF is not history, even though the museumization of far-left terrorism has gained pace with last September's return to Germany of the Lufthansa plane Landshut, which was hijacked in 1977. It remains unclear what role Germany's intelligence services played when members of the student protest movement of the late 1960s and early '70s began to show inclinations toward terror. A key figure was the informant Peter Urbach, the Hamburg-based political scientist Wolfgang Kraushaar told DW. "Urbach played an important role, one that cannot be conclusively evaluated, in transforming a small-but-hard core of what was then the protest scene into militant groupings, and eventually into circles from which the terrorism emerged," Kraushaar said. Police say the people in this security camera still are the still-free RAF members Urbach was active on April 11, 1968: the day that the student leader Rudi Dutschke was shot and critically injured in an assassination attempt by a far-right activist. Two thousand angry students marched on the headquarters of Axel Springer's publishing house. The mogul's Bild newspaper had been agitating heavily against the student protests and against Dutschke himself. Kraushaar said Urbach was among the demonstrators and was carrying a wicker basket of Molotov cocktails, which he distributed to the protesters, who were already in a state of outrage and fury. "When the first few gasoline bombs didn't achieve what the protesters were hoping to achieve, which was to set these cars ablaze, Urbach showed them what they had to do," Kraushaar said. "First they turned the cars over so it was easier to get at the gasoline tanks underneath. Then they set fire to them. Then the cars all went up in flames and burnt out." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/18OKt Effort to discredit Kraushaar said Urbach was also the first person to distribute guns to left-wing protesters. In his view, Urbach was an agent provocateur who had considerable influence on the actions of Germany's nonparliamentary opposition. This raises the question of what motivated Berlin's city-state administration, and possibly such West German allies as the United States, France and Britain — who were the city's occupying and controlling powers until reunification in 1990 — to give such a man a free hand. "They wanted to get demonstrators with particularly militant leanings to discredit themselves and others, and ultimately the whole left-wing nonparliamentary active movement, with acts of violence," Kraushaar said. Though the RAF was the best-known far-left terror group, it was not the only one. There were also, for example, the Revolutionary Cells; the 2 June Movement, named after the day of the murder of the student Benno Ohnesorg by a police officer in 1967; and the Tupamaros West-Berlin, who attempted to bomb Berlin's Jewish Community Center on November 9, 1969 — the 31st anniversary of Kristallnacht. The center was full, with around 250 people present. Fortunately the bomb failed to explode. Here, too, Germany's intelligence services were involved. "Just imagine: A Jewish institution was attacked with a bomb from the intelligence services, supplied by this Peter Urbach," the historian Michael Sontheimer said. "This was the start of terrorism in West Germany, in West Berlin." In hindsight, it is clear that government agencies were prepared to pour oil on a fire that was already raging. Whether it was the murder of business executive and industry representative Hanns-Martin Schleyer, the early RAF court trials or the hijacking of a Lufthansa airplane, the far-left militant group Red Army Faction (RAF) brought a wave of terror onto West Germany in the 1970s. Their actions have since inspired a number of filmmakers. In "The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum," a young woman played by Angela Winkler has an affair with an alleged terrorist, drawing the attention of the police, the judiciary system and the press. The 1975 film by Volker Schlöndorrf, based on a book by Heinrich Böll, is a fictional story based on the left-wing terrorism that took place in Germany in the 1960s and 1970s. "'Germany in Autumn' is not a 'good' film, but an important one," wrote Die Zeit. The 1978 film, comprised of 11 episodes, brought together top German directors including Rainer Werner Fassbinder and Volker Schlöndorff. Reflecting the socio-political climate of West Germany in the 1970s, this film was also based on a work by Nobel Prize-winning author Heinrich Böll. "Knife in the Head," starring Bruno Ganz as Dr. Hoffmann, was a 1978 blockbuster in West Germany. During a police raid, he is shot in the head but survives. But is he a victim of police brutality or terrorism? No one seems to know - not even Hoffmann, who loses his memory in the shooting. Margarethe von Trotta's 1981 film "Marianne and Juliane" is a fictionalized account based on the biographies of two real-life sisters and pastor's daughters, Christiane and Gudrun Ensslin. Both are active in politics. While one is a quiet pragmatist, the other joins the RAF and is later found dead in her prison cell. The film helped von Trotta make her international breakthrough. About 10 years after the Stammheim trial of RAF co-founders Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof, filmmaker Reinhard Hauff devoted a new film to the subject of RAF terrorism. Based on authentic protocols, "Stammheim" (1986) reconstructs the 192-day trial in 1975. The narrative is limited to the protocol reproduction and does not include any commentary. "The State I Am In" is a 2000 film by Christian Petzold about life after being part of the RAF. A couple who defied the German state in the 1970s lives underground with their daughter for years out of fear of being caught. While the parents are plagued by paranoia, the daughter decides to break out of hiding. Another story of life in hiding, this time in the former East Germany, is Volker Schlöndorff's "The Legend of Rita." In the film from 2000, left-wing terrorists go underground in East Germany in the 1970s with the help of the Stasi. After German reunification, their cover is blown and they are shot and killed while trying to escape. Several RAF members really did attempt to hide in East Germany. The documentary film released in 2001 by director Andres Veiel, "Black Box BRD" offers a counter-narrative in which surprising parallels open up. On the one side there is Alfred Herrhausen, spokesperson for Deutsche Bank's board of directors, who was murdered by the RAF. On the other side is RAF member Wolfgang Grams, whose violent death also raises questions. Perhaps the best-known film about the RAF, "The Baader-Meinhof Complex" (2008) provides the terrorist group's back story and their actions based on a book of the same name written by Stefan Aust. The film received mixed reviews, with some critics claiming it mystified the RAF - in part due to a star cast including Moritz Bleibtreu as Andreas Baader and Martina Gedeck as Ulrike Meinhof. In "Die Anwälte - Eine deutsche Geschichte" (The Lawyers - A German Story) from 2009, the careers of Otto Schily, Hans-Christian Ströbele and Horst Mahler are traced from their days as attorneys for the left-wing political opposition in the 1970s to the present. Schily (right) became interior minister; Ströbele (left) joined the Greens party; Mahler is a right-wing extremist and Holocaust denier. Andres Veiel made his feature film debut in 2011, in "If Not Us, Who?" The story of an emotional and sexual love triangle follows RAF co-founder Gudrun Ensslin and Bernward Vesper, son of a Nazi poet, as they fall in love, get married and have a child. But then Ensslin leaves the family and follows Andreas Baader into the RAF underground. Author: Anna Seibt (kbm, ct) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of news and features. You can sign up to receive it here.