New York Times reporters Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey played a major role in taking down movie producer Harvery Weinstein by investigating alleged repeated sexual assault cases. Their work is set to be portrayed in an upcoming movie, its producers said on Wednesday. Plan B, Brad Pitt's production company, and Annapurna acquired the film rights to the story, Annapurna spokeswoman Ashley Momtaheni told Reuters. Plan B was behind films such as "12 Years a Slave" and Oscar winner "Moonlight." The movie will not focus on the now disgraced Hollywood mogul, but rather on the journalists' research, in a similar way to the 2015 Oscar-winning film "Spotlight," about the Boston Globe's reporting on systemic child sex abuse in the Catholic Church, or "All the President's Men," about the Washington Post reporters whose investigation led to the Watergate Scandal. Read more: Spielberg's 'The Post': How 1970s politics resonate with today's era of 'fake news' The assassination of US President John F. Kennedy has been the subject of conspiracy theories since the moment it took place on November 22, 1963, at the height of the Cold War. While many movies have tackled those theories, this one by Oliver Stone, which considers an alternative conclusion to the FBI's official story of a lone assassination, drew in more than $40 million in box office receipts. Perhaps the largest scandal in US history, the Watergate affair that took down President Richard Nixon is captured in Oliver Stone's biographical picture, "Nixon." How could a break-in at an office building in 1972 lead to the US President's impeachment? Through the FBI's investigation, the president's role in the burglary and a tape-recording system in his offices was uncovered. This political thriller is based on the book written by the two "Washington Post" reporters, Bob Woodward (Robert Redford, right) and Carl Bernstein (Dustin Hoffman (left), who uncovered President Nixon's role in the Watergate scandal. Their reporting, based on information from an FBI informant they referred to as Deep Throat, led to Nixon's resignation in 1974. Based on the true story of a 1975 shootout that killed a tribal council member on South Dakota's Pine Ridge Reservation, "Thunderheart" dramatizes the story of a man with Sioux Indian roots, Ray Levoi (Val Kilmer), who moves to the reservation to investigate. Over the course of the investigation, the agent begins to reject the tactics of his fellow FBI agents. Frank Sinatra stars in the 1962 original, "The Manchurian Candidate," in which a former POW is brainwashed into becoming an international assassin. The 2004 remake, featuring Denzel Washington, put a contemporary twist on the plot by setting the film during the Gulf War. The thriller takes on a major political tone as it questions the role of fictional corporations in US politics. The Cold War has long proved a fertile backdrop for Hollywood. Based on a John le Carré novel, the 2011 thriller is set in London in the early 1970s and follows a retired spy in his search to uncover a Soviet agent who has infiltrated the British spy services, MI6. The espionage film stars Gary Oldman (left) and John Hurt (right). Taking a more humorous approach to scandalous politics is "Wag the Dog," with Dustin Hoffman (l.) as a spin doctor who concocts a war with Albania in order to save the fictional US President, Robert De Niro (r.), from a sex scandal. The ploy is uncovered by William H. Macy, a suspicious FBI agent. Released in 1997, the film was seen as a tragic commentary on the role the media plays in politics. Director Michael Moore is known for his outspoken politics. In the 1995 comedy, "Canadian Bacon," he imagines what would happen if the US invaded Canada. The biting message has that the US President has done so to boost the economy and his own approval rating. It was the last movie released with John Candy (right) in a starring role. Author: Courtney Tenz Along with Ronan Farrow who reported on Weinstein for the New Yorker magazine,Kantor and Twohey recently won the Pulitzer Prize for their article, "Harvey Weinstein Paid Off Sexual Harassment Accusers for Decades," published on October 5 last year. Read more:  Marking history: the Pulitzer Prize The revelations had a massive social impact. Altogether, 70 women accused Weinstein, then one of Hollywood's most powerful figures, of sexual misconduct or rape. Their testimonies emboldened many other victims to reveal their cases, sparking the #MeToo movement exposing workplace harassment. 