Toronto authorities on Tuesday charged a van driver who plowed into a crowd of people on a busy sidewalk with murder. Police said the suspect, 25-year-old Alek M., was not known to them before Monday's carnage in Canada's most populous city, which left 10 people dead and 15 more injured. Alek M. entered the courtroom wearing a white forensic jumpsuit and spoke his name loudly and confidently, said DW's correspondent in Toronto, Jeff Harrington. The suspect’s father was present in court and wept as the charges were read out, Harrington said. The judge ordered him detained without bond and has scheduled the next hearing for May 10. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wXkq Speaking to reporters, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau dismissed the possibility of terrorism, and said that authorities see no national security element in the case. At the news conference Trudeau said that it "hasn't changed the overall threat level in Canada," though it occurred as Cabinet ministers from the G7 nations were meeting in Toronto. What we know about the suspect Police are still no closer to establishing a motive, but reports have emerged of M. "egging police on, telling police to shoot him," according to Harrington. Police did, however, say the suspect had posted a "cryptic message" on his social media account moments before the attack. Facebook confirmed that the man referrered to the "incel rebellion" on its site (short for "involuntary celibacy") and praised another man who killed six college students and then himself in California in 2014. That man had cited his frustration over a lack of sexual contact as the reason for the killings. The house where the suspect lived with his father, a two-story red-brick home in the Richmond Hill suburb north of Toronto, was a crime scene Tuesday, taped off and surrounded by police vehicles. Officers were seen going in and out of the house. Fellow students who attended a Toronto vocational school with Alek M. described him as withdrawn and a bit awkward, but one classmate remembered him as "absolutely harmless." The suspect kept mostly to himself at school, and seemed to constantly rub his head or hands — a sign of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), classmates told local media. Ari Blaff, one of the students, told public broadcaster CBC that Minassian's behavior "was usually quite strange." But he'd "never noticed anything violent," adding that the suspect just "made people feel uneasy around him." Police sealed off the scene after a van mounted a curb in northern Toronto and ran into several pedestrians on Monday. Canadian authorities later confirmed 10 people had been killed and 15 injured. Pedestrians help a victim as several were treated for various, unspecified injuries by first responders following the incident. The incident began at the corner of Yonge Street and Finch Avenue, according to local media — a major intersection in northern Toronto. The vehicle involved in the crash fled the scene, but was eventually found and the driver taken into custody. Police said the suspect was a 25-year-old man from Richmond Hill on the outskirts of Toronto. Authorities closed an eight-block stretch of Yonge Street — one of the busiest stretches in Toronto — after the incident. The subway system was also suspended and people were asked to stay away from the scene. At a press conference, police chief Mark Saunders said the driver's actions "looked deliberate," but stopped short from describing the Monday event as an act of terrorism. "We follow where the evidence takes us," he said. A woman talks with Toronto police near the site of the incident. Authorities have encouraged people who saw what happened to step forward as they continue investigating the scene. Author: Davis VanOpdorp, Darko Janjevic av/rt (Reuters, AP, AFP) Editor's note: DW follows the German press code, which stresses the importance of protecting the privacy of suspected criminals or victims and obliges us to refrain from revealing full names in such cases. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.