A one-day "warning strike" has kicked off at airports across Germany, with at least half of scheduled flights delayed or canceled. Significant traffic disruptions were reported at Frankfurt, Munich, Cologne, Bremen and Berlin. "The walkout started in the morning and will probably last until the evening," said a spokesman for Fraport, the operator of Frankfurt airport — the largest in Germany. German carrier Lufthansa said in a statement that only 800 of its 1,600 flights would go ahead. Some 90,000 travelers were expected to be affected. The walkout, led by major German labor union Verdi, aims to push for a pay rise of 6 percent or at least 200 euros ($245) per month for the 2.3 million public sector workers across the country. The strike affects ground traffic personnel, customer support and some of the airport fire services, as well as local transport, public swimming pools, garbage collection and childcare. Read more: Workers' rights in Germany: Not everyone can go on strike German airline Lufthansa said it had to cancel more than half of its 1,600 scheduled flights on Tuesday as a result of the strike. Its budget subsidiary, Eurowings, was also affected. An estimated 90,000 travelers are affected by the disruptions at several major airports, including Frankfurt and Munich. Passengers traveling within Germany were told they could exchange their flight for a train ticket, or change their flight time free of charge. Tuesday's walkout affects ground traffic personnel, customer support and some airport fire services across Germany. But the broader dispute over public sector pay also involves kindergartens, rubbish collection, utility companies and local transport. A notice board warns passengers at Frankfurt airport — Germany's largest hub — to contact their airline for more information. Germany's Verdi labor union is demanding a 6 percent pay increase for the 2.3 million public sector workers it represents. It says wages have suffered, with airports in particular failing to pass on the profits from surging passenger numbers to staff. Here, union members block a bus depot in the western city of Essen Disruptions to local buses and trains in Cologne also led to traffic chaos on the roads, with commuters facing long delays on their way to work. The next round of talks over the pay dispute is set to continue in Potsdam on Sunday. "Without marked wage increases, there will be no landings during this round of negotiations," Verdi said in a statement on its website. Lufthansa personnel chief Bettina Volkens criticized the union's action as "unacceptable," and noted that the airline itself was not involved in the wage row. "It is nevertheless our customers and us who are most affected by the consequences of the disagreement," she said. Service at airports is set to return to normal on Wednesday, Lufthansa said. Other public sectors, however, are expected to be affected by the strike until Friday. nm/rt  (dpa, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.