The Commonwealth's heads of government confirmed on Friday that Prince Charles would be the next head of the association of former British colonies once he succeeds his mother Queen Elizabeth II on the throne. The 53 Commonwealth leaders released a statement announcing Charles' future appointment following a private two-day retreat at the royal residences in Windsor. Read more: The Commonwealth: Still relevant for Africa today? "We recognize the role of the Queen in championing the Commonwealth and its peoples," the statement read. "The next head of the Commonwealth shall be His Royal Highness Prince Charles, the Prince of Wales." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wNJw The announcement had been expected after the Queen on Thursday said she hoped her son would lead the Commonwealth after her. "It is my sincere wish that the Commonwealth will continue to offer stability and continuity for future generations and will decide that one day the Prince of Wales should carry on the important work started by my father in 1949," she said at the opening of the leaders' summit on Thursday. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also chimed in on Thursday, saying he "very much" agreed with the British monarch's wishes. The position is not strictly hereditary and there were suggestions that a non-royal head on the position to project a more modern image. Queen Elizabeth has led the Commonwealth throughout her 66-year reign. However, she only remains the titular head of state in some of the member countries, while others have since become republics. The UK is eager to reinvigorate relations with its loose alliance of former colonies as it prepares to leave the European Union. Altogether, the Commonwealth boasts a combined population of 2.4 billion people, with India accounting for more than half of that. Read more: Windrush scandal puts UK immigration policy on the spot The concept of the "royal family" originated in the middle of the 19th century with Prince Albert, Queen Victoria and their nine children. Since then, not only is a queen or a king responsible for the British Empire, but a whole extended family. The Windsors have modernized and perfected this concept. Today, the Queen even accepts Camilla, the second wife of son Charles, into the family circle. George V (1865-1936, right) looked like his cousin Czar Nicholas II of Russia. But when the latter needed to abdicate after the 1917 Revolution, George V distanced himself and quickly withdrew the offer for political asylum for fear of unrest in his own kingdom. Nicholas II was assassinated shortly thereafter. As World War I continued, the reign of George V stabilized after the change of name to Windsor. While elsewhere monarchies crumbled, George V led his kingdom through an economic crisis, and granted numerous colonies independence within the Commonwealth. After George V's death in 1936, his son Edward VIII succeeded him on the throne. His reign lasted only 326 days - the shortest in British history. Edward's impending marriage to American Wallis Simpson caused both a scandal and a constitutional crisis. The conservative government eventually forced him to abdicate. Edward's younger brother Albert stepped into the breach, and in 1937 was crowned King George VI. With his wife Elizabeth and his two daughters Elizabeth and Margaret Rose, George VI had a strong family behind him. He led the country through World War II, but was burdened with poor health. In 1952, the king died of arterial thrombosis. During World War II, the royal family stayed in solidarity with the deprived general populace by living only on food rations, for example. George stayed in London despite the bomb attacks and the damage to Buckingham Palace. He spent the weekends with the family in Windsor. With their commitment to the war effort, the royal family became a symbol of British resistance to fascism. After Germany's capitulation on May 8, 1945, a jubilant crowd gathered before Buckingham Palace and screamed "We want the King!" The royals were at the height of their popularity. In 1947, people flocked to the wedding of Princess Elizabeth and Philip Mountbatten. The king's daughter proved to be a godsend for the British crown. Since her coronation in 1952, she has stood for continuity. A largely scandal-free marriage and four children have ensured the continuation of the Windsors at a time when many other monarchies have dissolved. The somewhat doomed marriage between Prince William and Lady Diana ended in 1992 amid an unsightly media spectacle that harmed the prestige of the royal family. Their two sons had to cope not only with the divorce in 1996, but also the sudden death of their mother in 1997. It would be a long time before Prince Charles was again a respected royal family member. In 2016, Queen Elizabeth celebrated her 90th birthday (pictured), and in 2012, her diamond jubilee was celebrated. She has held the throne longer than any British monarch before her. Currently, she is the longest serving head of state in the world. Despite increasing criticism of the royal family from the media, the support of the monarchy under Queen Elizabeth II seems unbroken. After his father's inglorious divorce and the tragic death of his mother, the private life of the queen's grandson William has drawn high media scrutiny. In Kate Middleton he has chosen a partner who can and wants to fulfill her role in the royal family - two young heirs included. The latest Windsor offspring have become media phenomena at a very young age. The "Prince George effect" describes Prince George's influence on business and pop culture - meaning whatever George wears sells. At the tender age of two, the prince has made GQ Magazine's list of the 50 Best Dressed Men in Britain. Author: Julia Hitz (sb) However, this year's Commonwealth summit had in large part been overshadowed amid revelations that the UK government had destroyed the personal arrival document of Caribbean migrants who arrived in the UK as part of the "Windrush Generation." British Prime Minister Theresa May was forced to apologize to the representatives of 12 Caribbean nations ahead of the Commonwealth summit for the treatment of long-term UK residents from the Caribbean by immigration officials. This year's leaders' meeting is widely expected to be the last attended the Queen, who turns 92 on Saturday. The next one will be held in Rwanda in two years' time. The monarch has not taken a long-haul for several years as she winds down her official royal duties. DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The Queen's outfits are legendary. Her fancy hats always match with her suits and her hemlines are weighted down - to prevent windy wardrobe embarrassments. Then there's the handbag: It always has the same shape. Classic, black, it's just big enough to hold her lipstick, reading glasses, mint lozenges, and a handkerchief. That's how the world has known her for the past 60 years. Queen Elizabeth II rarely shows up bareheaded. She has hats in all shapes and colors. Some are light and playful, trimmed with little flowers, while others look strict and sober. They always match with her outfits. Who could tell how many she actually has? It's one of the world's best-kept secrets. Even when she was younger, she was the queen of headgear. Here she is on the beach, donning a casual hippy style. This picture belongs to a series of historical photos of the Queen which were auctioned in 2008. A private collector can now smile with her every day. Even a princess needs to pitch in: During World War II, Elizabeth Windsor was part of the Auxiliary Territorial Service, the women's division of the British Army. She learned mechanics and how to drive trucks. This picture was taken in 1945 - once again, with headgear. Two years after the war, Elizabeth married her childhood sweetheart, Prince Phillip of Greece and Denmark. Hundreds of ration coupons were collected to purchase her wedding gown: After the war, it was still difficult to obtain such valuable materials, even for the royal house. The satin dress was embroidered with 10,000 pearls and crystals and had a four-meter-long (13-foot) bridal train of lace. At the coronation ceremony On June 2, 1953, she wore a white silk dress with colorful embroideries representing the emblems of the Commonwealth of Nations. Attached to her shoulders, a five-meter-long (16-foot) velvet mantle was carried by six maids of honor. It was billed "the visit of the century." In May 1965, the Queen was West Germany's most welcome official foreign guest. 56 years had gone by since the last visit by a British state official - and two wars, during which both countries had experienced great suffering. Queen Elizabeth II spent 11 days traveling through the young Federal Republic - and charmed the Germans with her outfits. After Elizabeth II enchanted Germany with her whimsical hats, she opted for a more traditional style for her Austrian state visit in 1969. She wore a white silk dress with a red sash, and a diadem instead of a hat. In 1978, Elizabeth II came to Germany for the second time. Although she was once again received with great pomp, the procession was more modest than the one for her first visit. Over the years, normalcy and even friendship characterized the two countries' relations. Former German president Walter Scheel, pictured here, contributed to consolidating these ties. In February 1972, the Queen visited King Bhumibol in Thailand. She'd obviously have a stately gown and diadem in her suitcase, but also a few playful outfits as well (with matching hats, of course). Even though it's cheerful, her summery ensemble on this picture doesn't seem frivolous. Nothing can diminish her royal style - not even these 3D glasses. The Queen wore them while visiting the University of Sheffield, where she was invited to operate an excavator with a 3D display. When the Queen is not on state visits, she often prefers a modest headscarf to her designer hats. Suddenly the royal guise is concealed: She rather looks like a good-natured grandmother, pictured here in 2012. She kept it tweedy while riding with the former U.S. President Ronald Reagan in 1982. The Queen showed him around the grounds of Windsor Castle, her favorite residence. On July 29, 1981, Elizabeth's son Prince Charles married Lady Diana in what was considered the "fairytale wedding of the century." Although the Queen apparently played a major role in the couple's union, she didn't manage to steal the spotlight from her daughter-in-law that day - not even in bright turquoise. When Prince William married Kate in 2011, the Queen wore a much more relaxed dress than at the wedding of Charles and Diana. Here she's pictured arriving at Westminster Abbey in a sober yellow outfit. Every year for the Queen's speech, she traditionally wears her official royal regalia. The speech always marks the formal beginning of a new legislative period for the British Parliament and outlines the projects of the government for the upcoming session. The Queen still dresses up in royal robes. Here she is with Prince Philip in front of Saint Paul's Cathedral, during a church service in honor of the Order of the British Empire, a highly respected order of merit. The Queen turned 90 in 2016. Although she was born on April 21, 1926, her official birthday is celebrated in June, because the weather is usually nicer for outdoor ceremonies. On June 13, 2015, she drove through London with her husband Prince Philip in an all-white suit, which matched her hair perfectly. Author: Silke Wünsch / eg dm/msh (AP, Reuters, dpa)