Toronto police confirmed 10 people were killed and 15 injured when a white van mounted a curb in the north of the city on Monday. The local Sunnybrook hospital said several of the injured were in critical condition. The driver fled the scene but police managed to track down the vehicle and arrest the suspect, whom they have identified. What we know so far Incident 'looked deliberate' Canada's public safety minister, Ralph Goodale, said that available information indicated there was "no national security connection." Police sealed off the scene after a van mounted a curb in northern Toronto and ran into several pedestrians on Monday. Canadian authorities later confirmed 10 people had been killed and 15 injured. Pedestrians help a victim as several were treated for various, unspecified injuries by first responders following the incident. The incident began at the corner of Yonge Street and Finch Avenue, according to local media — a major intersection in northern Toronto. The vehicle involved in the crash fled the scene, but was eventually found and the driver taken into custody. Police said the suspect was a 25-year-old man from Richmond Hill on the outskirts of Toronto. Authorities closed an eight-block stretch of Yonge Street — one of the busiest stretches in Toronto — after the incident. The subway system was also suspended and people were asked to stay away from the scene. At a press conference, police chief Mark Saunders said the driver's actions "looked deliberate," but stopped short from describing the Monday event as an act of terrorism. "We follow where the evidence takes us," he said. A woman talks with Toronto police near the site of the incident. Authorities have encouraged people who saw what happened to step forward as they continue investigating the scene. Author: Davis VanOpdorp, Darko Janjevic Police look for eyewitnesses An eyewitness, Nick Sanka, told broadcaster Global News: "One person was hit at the corner of Yonge and Finch, two at the next corner and three at the corner next to me were run over," he said. "He was definitely speeding, wasn't swerving just went straight through," he added. Another eyewitness, Alex Shaker, told the CTV News Channel: "He started going down on the sidewalk and crumbling down people one by one." Canadian news outlet Toronto Star published a video which showed local police apparently arresting a man after the Monday incident. The man, believed to be the suspect, says "Shoot me in the head" while confronting police officers. Ryder System Inc, a well-known truck rental company, confirmed one of its vehicles was involved in the incident. 'Hearts go out' Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau thanked the first responders at the scene for facing "danger without hesitation." "We should all feel safe walking in our cities and communities," Trudeau said. "We are monitoring this situation closely, and will continue working with our law enforcement partners around the country to ensure the safety and security of all Canadians." Kathleen Wynne, the premier of Ontario, said provincial, federal and Toronto city police were working together to investigate what happened. Speaking to reporters at around 3:30 p.m. local time, Wynne said no motive has been determined yet. "I think we are all unsettled and disturbed by a situation like this. I think it's impossible not to be. It's frightening," she said. Critical timing: The incident occurred as ministers from the G7 countries were meeting in Toronto in the run-up to the G7 meeting in Quebec City in June. Below the radar: The US and Europe have experienced deadly attacks in recent years in which vehicles were used to mow down pedestrians, although there is no official indication yet that this was a terrorist attack, and Canada has experienced few terror attacks itself. Canada's minister of public safety, Ralph Goodale, said Canada had not changed its terrorism alert level. A new era of terror appears to have been ushered in when a huge truck plowed through masses of people along a beachfront promenade in the French city of Nice. Some 86 people were killed and at least 300 injured in the carnage. Police said the attacker was raised in Tunisia but moved to France in 2005. He was shot dead by police at the scene of the attack. A truck attack on a Christmas market left 12 dead and 48 injured a week before Christmas. Police said an 'Islamic State' militant hijacked the truck driven by Polish driver Lukasz Urban who tried to alter the direction of the truck, saving lives as he sat in the passenger seat. Urban was killed by the attacker who fled the scene but was shot dead four days later. The back end of a delivery truck was left sticking out from the corner of a department store in downtown Stockholm as police investigators examined the site; 5 people were killed and 14 injured. Police soon arrested a suspect. Appearing in court two days later his lawyer Johan Eriksson told the court that the man "admits to a terrorist crime." He claimed to be an IS supporter. London endured a trio of truck attacks this year that have left 18 dead and 100 injured. The deadliest attack occured June 3 on London Bridge and the nearby Borough Market, leaving 11 dead and 50 injured. The other vehicle attacks occurred March 22 and June 19; the former left six dead and at least 40 injured, while the latter left one person dead and 10 injured. In a bizarre twist a white supremacist took a page from Islamist militants and turned his vehicle into a weapon, plowing into a crowd of people at an anti-fascism rally, which left one person dead and at least 19 injured. Police charged a 20-year-old man with second-degree murder. He was photographed at the rally with Vanguard America, a white supremacist group. A van was used to run down pedestrians on the city's Las Ramblas street; 17 people were killed and at least 100 injured. Several hours later, 75 miles down the coast, a car slammed into a group of people in the town of Cambrils, killing one and injuring five. There were five people in the attack vehicle and police killed all of them. Police confirmed that the two attacks were connected. It didn't take long for the suspect to wreak havoc Tuesday in lower Manhattan; eight people were killed and 11 seriously injured. After his truck came to a crashing halt the suspect jumped out with a pellet gun and a paintball gun and shouted "God is great." The 29-year-old suspect was shot by police and taken into custody. jbh,dj/se (Reuters, dpa, AP, AFP)