83-year-old Gu Sub Shim, together with his friends and some reporters, attentively followed the historic summit between South Korea's President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. He is on the board of the 40-member "Association for Separated Families," a Seoul-based association for families split by the 1950-53 Korean War. In the association's tiny office located on a side street in the South Korean capital, the old men meet over tea and engage in lengthy chats about the past. On the walls hang maps and numerous photos of the last family meetings; the faces of their loved ones are pixelated, though, for fear of persecution. Read more: South Korea's self-appointed 'patriots' protest against rapprochement with North Korea Shim looks longingly over and over again at the photos of his sister, brother and parents. The octogenarian is quite satisfied with the outcome of the Moon-Kim summit. "But this can only be a beginning," he said. Shim said he was deeply moved when Moon and Kim embraced each other after signing the joint declaration Like most South Koreans, Shim said he was deeply moved when Moon and Kim embraced each other after signing the joint declaration. And when the North Korean leader spoke of the "end of the war," it gave him hope, Shim said. While explaining Korea's predicament, Shim also referred to Germany's past. "Germans could probably best understand how painful it is to have a divided country. In Korea, there was also a war in which Koreans killed each other. And to this day, there has only been a ceasefire agreement, not a peace treaty." Torn for 71 years Shim comes from Hamgyong province in northeastern North Korea, not far from the Chinese border. His father was a journalist for the conservative newspaper Choson Ilbo and had to flee to the South in 1945 when the Communists invaded. Shim followed his father two years later, but his mother and his two siblings remained behind. For years, they heard nothing from each other, and when the war broke out in 1950 leading to the division of Korea in 1953, the last hope of living a life together under one roof evaporated. After his father's death, Shim lived his lonely life in the South. Unexpectedly, however, he one day received a postcard from his sister, which she had somehow managed to send to the South via China. On the front side was her family portrait from childhood; on the back side, though, was the sad news that their mother had died, he said. The mother uttered his name shortly before her death, the sister wrote. Read more:South Korean loudspeakers silenced for good as relations with North thaw Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wqd0 Shim then began his efforts to establish contact with his siblings in the North. Through acquaintances in China, he managed to trace them. Years passed and finally in 1994, 47 years after the separation, he could see his brother again for the first time, in southern China. Their meeting lasted only a few hours. The brother is no longer alive, but Shim regularly sends aid packages to his sister via his secret contacts in China. Rarely, however, can she smuggle out a letter. The last time they met, his sister was a 5-year old. He still remembers her jumping around on his knees, now she is also an old woman with grey hair. North and South Korean family members last met during the separated family reunions at Mount Kumgang resort, in North Korea, in October 2015 Time is running out At last week's meeting, Kim and Moon agreed to resume reunions of separated families. For the first time ever, a North Korean ruler mentioned the fate of the separated families. On the symbolic date of August 15, the anniversary of the Japanese surrender following defeat in World War II, about a hundred separated family members are expected to be allowed to meet again. For the "Association for Separate Families," this is far from enough. Of the 130,000 divided family members, about half have already died and 12,000 are over 90 years old. Many are worried that they will die without seeing their separated family members ever again. "It is essential that both sides set up a common postal system again so that letters and parcels can be sent to each other," said Shim. "A postcard would be enough to know that at least the relatives are still alive." Moreover, it costs nothing nowadays to talk to someone anywhere in the world, he pointed out. "You can even see each other via mobile phone." It is only between North and South Korea that such a thing is not possible, Shim lamented. The first agreed family reunion could therefore only be the beginning, he added. Around 93,000 separated family members will now compete to be on the list of 100 persons scheduled to meet in August as part of the family reunion. "It’s like winning a lottery [for those who end up on the list]," Shim said bitterly while again looking longingly at his sister's photos. Despite its image of being secretive, North Korea invites foreigners to discover its attractions. But traveling as tourists comes with strings attached, as special guides shadow their every step. The restrictions haven't deterred Pierre Depont, who has visited the country seven times, capturing glimpses of the locals' daily life. Depont first traveled to North Korea in 2013 - and has since studied the changing face of the authoritarian country. During the last two to three years, he has observed "that in Pyongyang it has become acceptable to show off your wealth." With a growing middle class and a construction boom, the capital seems to be defying international economic sanctions. Connecting with everyday people isn't easy, says Depont. "I had a couple of random conversations with strangers - always overheard by one of the guides." In Depont's experience, most locals don't like to be photographed. "North Korean women are definitely getting more fashionable. But you can only see it in the cities." Commuting in style: this underground station in Pyongyang dazzles travelers with what looks like marble walls and chandeliers. To Depont, North Korea is "an amazing space for photography. You find no advertising at all, no distraction. It feels like a whole new game." But while the capital - home to the elite - seems to be thriving, other parts of North Korea remain mired in abject poverty. To this day, North Korea remains a highly militarized, predominantly agricultural society. Tourists, however, don't get to see much of the living conditions of the rural population. "Every little piece of land is cultivated, every square meter is used." Tourists interested in life outside North Korean cities are taken on guided tours to showcase cooperative farms. When Depont visited one such farm near Hamhung, the country's second-largest city, it featured a little market with a variety of neatly stocked goods. Depont recalls feeling like the shop "was just for show." A stop at a model school is an important item on many tours' agenda. The renovated international summer camp Songdowon was re-opened in 2014 and has been visited by the country's current leader Kim Jong Un. "There is something unreal about it," says Depont. "The kids play in the amusement room, using very advanced arcade games and around 20 modern computers." The military is central to the country's identity and the fabric of its society. Around a quarter of the population is employed as military personnel, while Pyongyang has one of the largest military budgets in the world relative to its economic output. From a very young age, North Koreans grow up with military imagery. Depont came across this miniature tank on a children's playground near Hamhung. Alongside militarism, the high level of political control and the personality cult surrounding Kim Jong Un and his predecessors are ubiquitous. The everyday worship of the supreme leader has left a lasting impression on Depont. "You see the amount of money and effort that goes into holding up the story of the great leaders and their great statues." Author: Helena Kaschel, Christine Bayer