Top former Chinese political high-flyer Sun Zhengcai was put on trial for bribery on Thursday as part of a sweeping anti-corruption campaign. Prosecutors accuse the former Politburo member and Communist Party leader in the western megacity of Chongqing of abusing his office by seeking profits for others in exchange for significant amounts of money. Although the indictment rests on allegations of bribery, Chinese leaders have made clear that Sun's offenses also have a political angle. Sun is one of the most high-profile cases in President Xi Jingping's  anti-graft campaign targeting senior officials of the Communist Party and other state-affiliated enterprises. Read more: 'The Chinese Dream' and Xi Jinping's power politics Zhou Yongkang, ex-security chief and former member of the Communisty Party politburo, was sentenced to life in prison for corruption Sweeping campaign In 2015, a Chinese court sentenced former security chief Zhou Yongkang to life in prison for abuse of power and bribery. Zhou was officially charged with disclosing state secrets, abuse of power and accepting bribes. Other politicians targeted by the anti-corruption campaign include former Commerce Minister Bo Xilai and ex-General Xu Caihou. Read more: Is China's anti-corruption campaign a political weapon for Xi Jinping? But rights group have criticized the campaign, saying several of those targeted have been subjected to torture. "President Xi (Jinping) has built his anti-corruption campaign on an abusive and illegal detention system," said Human Rights Watch in 2016. "Torturing suspects to confess won't bring an end to corruption, but will end any confidence in China's judicial sytem." Xi Jinping, the son of communist revolutionary and political leader Xi Zhongxun, started his political career when he was finally accepted as a member of China’s Communist Party in 1974. Xi had applied to join the party several times, but was rejected due to his father’s political history — Xi Zhongxun had been purged in 1962 and was then persecuted and jailed during China's Cultural Revolution. Xi studied chemical engineering at Tsinghua University, but after acceptance to the Communist Party he worked hard to reach the top ranks. In 1982, he started out as a party secretary in Herbei province before advancing to more senior roles in the country, such as numerous provincial governor positions and then party chief in China’s second biggest city and financial hub Shanghai. On November 15, 2012, Xi was elected general secretary of the Communist Party and chairman of the Central Military Commission by the 18th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, which informally made him China’s leader. On March 14, 2013, Xi was officially elected president in a confirmation vote by the 12th National People’s Congress. He replaced Hu Jintao who had served his two terms. Following his election, the phrase "Chinese Dream" became the political slogan of Xi’s leadership. While some thought it echoed the American Dream, it refers to the rejuvenation of China. Xi has called for the "great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation" and for his country to take its "due place in the world." He said that China is "resolved to fight the bloody battle against our enemies." On November 7, 2015, Xi met with then-Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou in Singapore, in the first meeting between China and Taiwan's leaders since the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1949. However, in March 2018, Xi Jinping warned Taiwan it would face the "punishment of history" for any attempt at separatism. It was Xi's harshest warning yet to the island, which China claims as its territory. On October 27, 2016, Xi was declared the "core" leader of the Communist Party, a title that is bestowed upon a leader who is seen as central to the leadership of the Communist Party of China. Just three others have been given the title, including Chairman Mao Zedong, who's commonly considered to be the founding father of modern China, former chairman Deng Xiaoping and former president Jiang Zemin. In December 2017, the People's Armed Police in China was put under the command of the Central Military Commission, which controls China's military. It put the 660,000-strong force under the direct control of President Xi Jinping, who heads the Central Military Commission as armed forces chief and commander in chief. On March 17, 2018, China’s parliament elected Xi for a second term and unanimously voted in favor of an amendment to the country’s constitution that removed presidential term limits. China previously had a limit of two terms, a system brought in by former leader Deng Xiaoping in 1982, to prevent lifelong dictatorships. The amendment allows President Xi Jinping to stay in power indefinitely. Author: Louisa Wright ls/rt (AFP, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.