Karl-Erivan Haub, the head of German retail group Tengelmann, has been missing since April 7, when he failed to return from a skiing trip. A company spokeswoman confirmed the news on Tuesday in a statement, saying that a "full speed" search for him was currently underway. Read more: Crisis talks over ailing German supermarket chain Kaiser's Tengelmann break down The 58-year-old businessman was vacationing at a ski lodge near the Matterhorn mountain, on the Swiss-Italian border. Swiss newspaper Blick had reported that his family alerted authorities when he didn't show up for an appointment at a hotel in the Zermatt resort after earlier setting off from a lift at the Matterhorn. Resembling the huge fang of a dinosaur, the Matterhorn rises 4,478 meters into the heavens. Switzerland's highest mountain is world famous for its distinctive shape, and is considered the world's most photographed mountain. The emblem of the Swiss Confederation is located in the canton of Valais. It was first ascended 150 years ago. Experts say the Matterhorn was "an African," a geological migrant that moved with the African continental plate to Europe 45 million years ago. Ever since human beings came into existence, they have most probably dreamed of climbing this giant in order to conquer its peak. But the Matterhorn, near Zermatt, was considered unconquerable well into the 19th century. The Matterhorn remained the last unconquered peak of the Alps until July 14, 1865. But then Englishman Edward Whymper (front right) and his team took on the challenge. Accompanied by three Valais mountain leaders, they mounted the giant and conquered its peak - an historic achievement, and a major international triumph. After having reached the peak tragedy struck: During the descent, one of the English climbers tumbles, taking along two of his fellow climbers and a mountain guide into the abyss. Whymper and the two remaining guides survive, because the rope breaks. The fall still remains somewhat of a mystery. The original rope, a silent witness, is exhibited in the Museum Zermatt. In the 150 years following the first ascent of the Matterhorn, the triumph and tragedy of the event have inspired many - including artists. The German feature film "Der Berg Ruft" (The Mountain Calls), produced in 1937/38, remains a thrilling tale to this day. South Tyrolean alpinist Louis Trenker both directed and starred in the film, which was a remake of a silent film. "The Matterhorn Story" is a play shown during the Freilichtspiele Zermatt until late August. "A play about love and death. About friendship and rivalry. About megalomania and the belief in God," promises the accompanying text. Surrounded by imposing natural scenery, the play aims to remind of the events of 1865, and the tragic circumstances of the first ascent. Much has been written about the myth of Matterhorn. In "Absturz des Himmels" (Crash of Heaven), a new novel based on facts, mountaineer Reinhold Messner describes the events of the first ascent in detail. On German television, he speaks of a "giant hype" surrounding the accident: "The Matterhorn and tourism in Zermatt are based on a tragedy." Nature paintings don't usually depict the hordes of tourists eager to experience the spell of the Matterhorn. Around two million overnight stays per year now take place in the village of Zermatt (with 6000 inhabitants). More than 3000 people ascend the Matterhorn every year. But with around 550 people having lost their lives during the attempt, the Matterhorn remains a dangerous proposition. St Bernards have become an unofficial symbol of the mountain and region. Bred for over 300 years by monks as avalanche dogs, they have adorned tourist photos taken at the Matterhorn for decades. Although many view the practice as animal exploitation, and discourage the touristic tradition. Nearly a dozen mini-Matterhorn replicas are said to exist outside Switzerland. A favorite one is located in the artificial dream world of Disneyland in Anaheim, near Los Angeles. Opened in 1959, the replica in the scale of 1:100 is surrounded by tracks. In the upper part of the hollowed mountain, there is a basketball court for the employees. The Hörnli-hut, 3260 meters high, has been the starting point for climbing to the Matterhorn peak for decades. It has been newly renovated for the 150th anniversary of the first ascent. In mid-July 2003, around 90 alpinists were evacuated from here by helicopters, after tons of rocks thundered down - triggered by melting snow. For professional mountaineers, the Matterhorn may not be a serious challenge anymore. But historically the mountain proved a challenge to any serious climber. The legendary Zermatt mountain guide Ulrich Inderbinen (1900-2004) reached the summit of the Matterhorn 371 times - holding the record - and for the last time at age 86. He only climbed Mont Blanc 84 times... With about 400-500 million overnight stays per year, the Alps are one of the world's biggest tourist destinations. The consequences of mass tourism for the environment has become a main concern. The Riffelsee (Lake Riffel) is at the foot of the mighty Matterhorn. The festivities surrounding this anniversary of the mountain of mountains will naturally become part of history. The myth, however, will always remain. Author: Klaus Krämer / ad Poor visibility and avalanche threats have made the search operations difficult. Karl-Erivan Haub is an avid alpinist, who was in Switzerland to train for the Patrouille des Glaciers ski race, an international long distance ski event organized by the Swiss army in which both military personnel and civilians compete. The race was scheduled to take place on April 17. Read more: Avalanches in Swiss Alps and French Alps leave two dead Family business In a letter sent to German newspaper Handelsblatt, the businessman's brother, Christian Haub, wrote that Karl-Erivan was "a very experienced alpinist and skier" and that despite all the time that had elapsed since his disappearance, he hoped his brother would be found. "Of course our family is prepared for such a situation", Christian Haub said if the worst case scenario occurred and that "the business will continue to run smoothly and orderly." Read more: A new lease of life for Germany's industrial wastelands Karl-Erivan Haub took over Tengelmann in 2000 from his father Erivan Haub. The elder Haub passed away unexpectedly on March 6 at his ranch in Wyoming. The family-run company was founded in 1867 as an importer of coffee and tea and a trader in goods from the colonies. Today, Tengelmann has a major presence in Germany as a multisector retailer with 73 holdings generating some €30 billion ($37 billion) in revenue. Its businesses include hardware chain Obi and textile discounter Kik. jcg/se (dpa, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.