27' — Sebastian Rudy could do with a good game. He hasn't had one in a while. He swings in a corner. Mats Hummels nearly gets to it, but gets headed by Matthias Ginter's head. Pain for both. Ouch. 21' — Bayern creeping into the game now (sound familiar?). Müller gets to a David Alaba corner, but Yann Sommer gathers easily. 16' — CHANCE! A delicious dink in behind the Gladbach defense from Thiago sets up Thomas Müller, but his volley goes just wide of the far post. In his form, you'd back him to score those. 13' — Well that's rattled Bayern. Of course, many will be thinking why now, when the title is already won for a sixth time? A valid question, but it is nevertheless a deserved lead for the visitors. Bayern enjoying more of the ball now, but can't do anything with it (yet). 8' — GOAL! 1-0 Gladbach (Drmic) Just as I was about to write that Bayern were dealing relatively well with the visitors, and then goal! And fittingly it's Josip Drmic (see pre-match updates below). A long ball forward ends with Drmic in the box. The striker cuts inside Niklas Süle before curling into the far corner. What finish! What a start! 6' — Quite a bit of possession for the visitors early on here. Raffael is dropping deep to pick up the ball, which is working well but then there isn't much to work with up top. 4' — Gladbach get in behind Bayern's defense a couple of times early on, but are offside on both occasions. That better not be the story of the day... 1' — We are underway! -- Teams are in, and unsurprisingly Jerome Boateng and Robert Lewandowski get a rest. The line-up is still strong, though. As for Gladbach, that might be their best eleven (Lars Stindl the obvious absentee). Josip Drmic could do with a goal for his confidence though. Bayern Munich: Ulreich - Kimmich, Süle, Hummels, Alaba - Rudy, Tolisso - Müller, Thiago, Bernat - Wagner Gladbach: Sommer - Elvedi, Ginter, Vestergaard, Wendt - Hazard, Kramer, Zakaria, Hofmann - Raffael, Drmic -- Good evening! Yes, Bayern Munich might have won the league last weekend but they've got form to carry if they're going to make a run at the coveted European trophy. At home against Gladbach, one of the Bundesliga's most historic fixtures, should provide a chance to see how good some of Bayern's best are at this stage of the season. Don't forget, other than our live updates here you can also follow the action and get involved in the debate on Twitter, @DW_Sports. We'd love to hear from you!