Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was formally nominated by his supporters for the vacant post of prime minister on Monday. Though he needs support from several more lawmakers to be assured of winning the vote on Tuesday in parliament, no other candidate had been registered as the deadline passed on Monday evening. The formal nomination is the latest step in Pashinyan's progress from leader of the protests that had forced unpopular Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan to resign to premier with a reform program. "I think this is a unique and great opportunity to resolve the domestic political crisis and to register the victory of the people, the kind of victory in which there are no losers," the former journalist said. Read more: Nikol Pashinyan: The man behind Armenia's protest movement A new dawn Pashinyan held negotiations with all parties in parliament Monday, saying: Serzh Sargsyan, who ruled Armenia for 10 years, tendered his resignation after widespread public demonstrations against his attempts to hold onto power. The Armenian government named former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, an ally of Sargsyan, as acting premier. The protests were sparked by Sargsyan's move to extend his rule. The 63-year-old was president of Armenia from 2008 until a term limit forced him out in March. But the parliament, which is controlled by ruling Republican Party, installed him as prime minister in April and curbed the powers of the president. The shift to a strengthened parliamentary triggered massive anti-government protests in the capital of Yerevan on April 13, with thousands of people participating in rolling demonstrations against Sargsyan. Hundreds of Armenian soldiers also joined the protests. The parliament's move to keep Sargsyan in power echoed a maneuver by Russian President Vladimir Putin a decade ago. Leaders in several former Soviet republics have used similar methods to remain in power. Acting PM Karapetian too has close ties with Russia. He worked in Russia for five years as a senior executive of state-controlled gas giant Gazprom. Protesters in the capital Yerevan took to the streets to celebrate Sargsyan's resignation. A day after Sargsyan stepped down, the country's opposition called for a meeting with the caretaker prime minister to discuss a "peaceful transfer of power." In this photo, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian (R) is seen in a meeting with Sargsyan on April 22, urging him to step down. Russia, Armenia's closest ally, said on April 24 that it was not concerned about the political situation in Yerevan. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said he did not regard Armenia's political tumult as a Ukraine-style revolt against pro-Russia politicians. However, according to analysts, Sargsyan's resignation has unsettled Russian interests in Armenia. After talks with acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetyan were cancelled, Pashinian and his supporters took to the streets again on April 25 to demand parliament choose a "people's candidate" who di not come from the ruling Republican Party. Armenia's parliament will vote for a new premier on May 1. Pashinian has said he is prepared to be a candidate, but it is unclear if he will get support. The ruling Republican Party holds a majority in parliament. As Nikol Pashinian's supporters staged further protests on April 29, the ruling Republican Party which holds a majority in parliament said it would not put forward a candidate for prime minister to stand against Pashinian. The party would not "impede the election of the people's candidate" if all three opposition factions voted for him, leader Vahram Baghdasaryan said. Short of six votes, Pashinian met with other political leaders in parliament on April 30. "We are facing the task of resolving the political crisis in the country," he said. "If a prime minister is not elected tomorrow, this crisis will not disappear." The vote in parliament for a new prime minister was scheduled for May 1. Author: Shamil Shams (with AP, dpa, Reuters) The reactions The Republicans said on Sunday they would not block Pashinyan's election if all opposition groups in parliament supported him. Republican leader Vahram Baghdasaryan said his party would not "impede the election of the people's candidate" if all three opposition factions supported him. Political analysts think it is likely that Pashinyan will win Tuesday's vote: "I see practically no obstacles to Pashinyan becoming a prime minister tomorrow," Hakob Badalyan told AFP. Political scientist Ervand Bozoyan said people now see political change is possible:  "Nikol has become a hero." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wXJq How did it come to this? Two weeks of protests brought the resignation of long-standing leader Sargsyan just days after parliament had approved his appointment as prime minister after spending a decade as president. The broad-based opposition supporting Pashinyan holds Sargsyan responsible for the poor state of the economy and for widespread corruption. How likely is Pashinyan to win? As the sole candidate, Pashinyan has support from 47 opposition lawmakers, but needs six more votes to be elected in the 105-seat legislature. Protests began again in the capital, Yerevan, on Monday evening after Pashinyan had spent the day meeting with other political leaders. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 