Supporters of Armenia's protest leader Nikol Pashinian staged further protests on Sunday – two days ahead of a key election that could see Pashinian rise to power. The 42-year-old politician called on his supporters to block roads in the capital Yerevan throughout the day on Sunday and to stage a massive rally in the evening. Pashinian made comments earlier saying his colleagues in parliament should elect him as the country's next prime minister. Two major parties are already backing Pashinian, but the opposition lawmaker is still six votes short of the 53 he needs from the 105-seat legislature. Nikola Pashinian is the only nominee in the race for prime minister at this point The ruling Republican Party, which has 58 seats, said it would announce its position on Monday. On Saturday, the Republican Party had announced that it would not put forward a candidate. Pashinian is the only nominee for the post so far. Armenia has been in the grip of a severe political crisis for the past two weeks, with the country's veteran leader Serzh Sargsyan stepping down after a decade in power in the face of major protests. The right man for the job? Earlier this week Nikol Pashinian received a hero's welcome in a number of towns and villages outside the capital as he drove around the landlocked South Caucasus country with his supporters in a convoy. However, other than his staunch opposition to former Prime Minister Sargsyan, which saw him jailed for more than a year in 2008, the young politician is yet to formulate what he stands for. Eduard Sharmazanov, vice speaker of parliament and the ruling Republican Party's spokesman, said he doubted that Pashinian was a suitable candidate for the role of prime minister. Keeping the peace Observers have meanwhile expressed fears that the disorder in Armenia could destabilize the Moscow-allied nation. Moscow has urged compromise and Russian President Vladimir Putin earlier this week spoke by phone with the interim head of government, stressing the importance of the upcoming election. The United States on Saturday urged "good faith" in negotiations, with a State Department statement calling for "a resolution that reflects the interests of all Armenians." Serzh Sargsyan, who ruled Armenia for 10 years, tendered his resignation after widespread public demonstrations against his attempts to hold onto power. The Armenian government named former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, an ally of Sargsyan, as acting premier. The protests were sparked by Sargsyan's move to extend his rule. The 63-year-old was president of Armenia from 2008 until a term limit forced him out in March. But the parliament, which is controlled by ruling Republican Party, installed him as prime minister in April and curbed the powers of the president. The shift to a strengthened parliamentary triggered massive anti-government protests in the capital of Yerevan on April 13, with thousands of people participating in rolling demonstrations against Sargsyan. Hundreds of Armenian soldiers also joined the protests. The parliament's move to keep Sargsyan in power echoed a maneuver by Russian President Vladimir Putin a decade ago. Leaders in several former Soviet republics have used similar methods to remain in power. Acting PM Karapetian too has close ties with Russia. He worked in Russia for five years as a senior executive of state-controlled gas giant Gazprom. Protesters in the capital Yerevan took to the streets to celebrate Sargsyan's resignation. A day after Sargsyan stepped down, the country's opposition called for a meeting with the caretaker prime minister to discuss a "peaceful transfer of power." In this photo, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian (R) is seen in a meeting with Sargsyan on April 22, urging him to step down. Russia, Armenia's closest ally, said on April 24 that it was not concerned about the political situation in Yerevan. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said he did not regard Armenia's political tumult as a Ukraine-style revolt against pro-Russia politicians. However, according to analysts, Sargsyan's resignation has unsettled Russian interests in Armenia. Armenia's parliament will vote for a new premier on May 1. Pashinian has said he is prepared to be a candidate, but it is unclear if he will get support. The ruling Republican Party holds a majority in parliament. Author: Shamil Shams (with AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.