A day before the Academy Awards nominations, the Razzie Awards has revealed the nominees for its annual "tribute" to Hollywood's worst productions. The blockbuster "Transformers: The Last Knight," the fifth sequel in the action movie series featuring robots that turn into vehicles, leads the race with nine nominations, including worst picture and worst actors. Academy Award-winner Anthony Hopkins has landed a nod for his supporting role in the movie, while star Mark Wahlberg has been singled out for his lead roles in both "Transformers" and "Daddy's Home 2." Read more: Mark Wahlberg is world's best-paid actor Described by Razzie founder John Wilson on Monday as "more sleep-inducing than sexy," "Fifty Shades Darker," the second film based on the best-selling erotic novels, follows closely with eight nominations. The three other nominees in the worst pictures category are "Baywatch," "The Emoji Movie" and "The Mummy." When Katja's husband and six-year-old son are killed in a bomb attack by two neo-Nazis, her life collapses. But the woman, portrayed by the German actress Diane Kruger, seeks revenge in Fatih Akin's "In the Fade." The German director received the prize for best motion picture in a foreign language. "This is yours, this is ours," said Akin when he received the award from Kruger. The Irish playwright, screenwriter and filmmaker Martin McDonagh was undoubtedly the winner of the evening, as his film "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" picked up four awards. He wrote, produced and directed the drama and received the awards for best screenplay and best motion picture. In "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri," Frances McDormand plays Mildred Hayes, a mother whose daughter was raped and murdered. When the police fail to find a suspect, Hayes calls the public's attention to the unsolved crime with billboards. McDormand received the award for best actress and Sam Rockwell (both pictured above) won in the category of best supporting actor. Unlike the Oscars, the Golden Globes grant two prizes in the best film category: one for best drama and another for best comedy or musical. While "Billboards" dominated the drama category, filmmaker and actress Greta Gerwig (third from left) clenched the best musical or comedy award for "Lady Bird," along with main actress Saoirse Ronan (right). Gerwig's film is a coming-of-age tragicomedy in which a young, unconventional woman, portrayed by Saoirse Ronan (above), seeks her way into life. She can't cope with her mother's expectations and learns that her father has recently lost his job and battles depression. Ronan won her first Golden Globe ever for her performance in the movie. Was the Mexican film director really as enthusiastic after the Globes as seen in this picture? With seven nominations, his film "The Shape of Water" was the front-runner of this year's ceremony, but the story of the relationship between Elisa, a mute woman, and a mysterious creature in a classified lab received "only" two awards: for best direction and best original score. British actor Gary Oldman won the Golden Globe in the category best actor in a drama, for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in "Darkest Hour." The war film follows the early days of the Prime Minister, as Hitler closes in on Britain during World War II. James Franco won the Golden Globe for best actor in a musical or comedy for his role of the infamous Hollywood outsider Tommy Wiseau in "The Disaster Artist." Wiseau's film "The Room" (2003) was called "the worst movie ever," but has gained cult following since then. Beyond the awards, the campaigns triggered by the Harvey Weinstein case were on everybody's lips during the evening: the #metoo and "Time's Up" movements inspired many speeches during the ceremony and were a ubiquitous element of the gala. The many sexual scandals of the last few months had an impact on the red carpet, too, which turned black this year, as many guests of the ceremony chose to wear all-black attires. Their aim was to show solidarity with all victims of sexual harassment. The famous American entertainer also appeared in black at this year's Golden Globes as she went to accept the Cecil B DeMille Award for lifetime achievement. Winfrey said in her speech, "For too long, women have not been heard or believed if they dare speak the truth to the power of those men. But their time is up. Their time is up!" The Golden Globes do not focus exclusively on the silver screen, but acknowledge great achievements on TV as well, which is another difference between the Globes and the Oscars. This year, the US series "The Handmaid's Tale" was honored with the award for best drama series, and its lead actress Elisabeth Moss also received the award for best actress. When the now 101-year-old Kirk Douglas turned up on stage, it was one of the highlights of the gala. The film veteran took to the stage accompanied by his daughter-in-law, actress Catherine Zeta-Jones, to present an award. The audience rose to a standing ovation and celebrated the career of the Hollywood maestro for several minutes. Author: Jochen Kürten (jt) Studded with A-list stars Just like the "Transformer" movies, Johnny Depp has also been a perennial Razzie target. His "worn-out drunk routine" in "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales" — the fifth movie in the swashbuckler fantasy film franchise — didn't go unnoticed this year, said Wilson, earning him a nod in the worst actor category. The never-ending 'Pirates of the Caribbean': Depp first portrayed Captain Jack Sparrow in 2003 Tom Cruise ("The Mummy"), Jamie Dornan ("Fifty Shades Darker") and Zac Efron ("Baywatch") join Wahlberg and Depp as worst actor contenders. Katherine Heigl ("Unforgettable"), Dakota Johnson ("Fifty Shades Darker"), Jennifer Lawrence ("Mother!") and Emma Watson ("The Circle") have been slated as this year's worst actresses. A man has also been included in the female category: Tyler Perry has been nominated for his lead role as an elderly black woman in "Boo 2! A Madea Halloween," the 10th film in the Madea series directed by the comedian himself. Read more: 'Fifty Shades' and 'Fantastic Four' named Hollywood's worst of 2015 at Razzie awards The Razzie Awards Who will take home the coveted trophy? The "winners" of the Golden Raspberry Awards will be announced on March 3, a day before the Academy Awards ceremony in Los Angeles. Although few actors show up to accept the mock award, a gold, spray-painted golf-sized raspberry trophy awaits them. Created in 1980, the annual tongue-in-cheek Razzie Awards are voted for online by around 1,000 Razzie members from 24 countries, who sign up online and pay a $40 membership fee. eg/cmk (Reuters, dpa)