Science fiction and fantasy writer Ursula K. Le Guin died on January 23, 2018 at her home in Portland, Oregon. The American author had been suffering from health problems for several months, to which she succumbed at age 88. Le Guin's family announced her passing on her Twitter account.  A pioneering writer One of the first female writers to specialize in science fiction and fantasy, Le Guin is considered a trailblazer for writing about topics traditionally considered as "masculine" subjects. Fighting dragons with sorcery, her characters face conflicts without reverting to the brand of machismo that is typically found in the genre. Her unique approach attracted fans the world over: Ursula K. Le Guin's books have been translated into over 40 languages, selling millions of copies worldwide. Having published more than 20 novels, Le Guin's best-known works consist of the six-volume Earthsea cycle, written between 1968 and 2001. The saga, which was later adapted into a film, tells the story of the sorcerer's apprentice Ged who struggles against evil forces. Other renowned works by the late author include "The Left Hand of Darkness" (1969) and "The Dispossessed" (1974). More than a novelist Ursula K. Le Guin has also inspired scores of US authors - in no small part due to her guidebooks on writing, including "Steering the Craft: A Twenty-First-Century Guide to Sailing the Sea of Story." Literary critic Harold Bloom once said that her works had "raised fantasy into high literature for our time." On Twitter, US writer Stephen King called Le Guin a literary icon. In addition to her collections of short stories and essays, Le Guin also published more than a dozen books of poetry and 13 children's books, and also translated five distinct works of literature, including the Tao Te Ching of Lao Tzu. She is also remembered for her outspoken activism, especially for freedom of speech. Just a year before her death, Le Guin penned a letter to the editor of the "Oregonian," her hometown newspaper, regarding the subject of "alternative facts" and "fake news" in the wake of the Donald Trump's election. Having grown up in California Le Guin studied literature at Harvard University and Columbia University. The acclaimed author received several important literature prizes over the years, among them several Hugo, Nebula and Locus awards. At the US National Book Awards 2014, Le Guin was honored with a life achievement award. ad/ct (dpa, afp)  