Israel must clarify its position on peace talks with Palestinians or risk "perpetual occupation and conflict," German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said Wednesday at a security conference in Tel Aviv. "As a friend and close ally, we need to know if Israel is not supporting a negotiated solution to this conflict anymore," he said. "What exactly is Israel's strategy in this conflict?" Germany and the European Union support the creation of a Palestinian state as part of a two-state solution to the long-standing conflict. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly said Palestinians should govern themselves but has not clarified whether that would mean an independent state or greater autonomy within Israel. A majority of lawmakers in Netanyahu's Likud party reject a Palestinian state. Read more: Israel vows to destroy all Gaza attack tunnels by year-end Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cOCA 'Perpetual occupation and conflict' "Are you prepared to pay the price of perpetual occupation and conflict — a price that will continue to grow if there is no hope for self-determination on the Palestinian side," Gabriel said. He also suggested European countries may reduce aid to Israel if the country abandons the two-state solution. The proposal, Gabriel said, was the "foundation of our engagement for Israeli-Palestinian peace and for the large amount of funding that Germany and Europe make available in support of the situation on the ground." EU members met in Brussels on Wednesday to pledge additional support to Palestinian state-building efforts. Read more: Tel Aviv rally for two-state model Diplomatic interruption Gabriel's speech at the conference marked the end of a 15-hour trip to Israel and the Palestinian territories that included earlier meetings with Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. During a joint press conference with Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister interrupted Gabriel after he said he was thankful to hear "the government of Israel wants to have two states." "Whether or not it's defined as a state when we have the military control is another matter, but I'd rather not discuss labels, but substance," Netanyahu said, referring to the West Bank, a Palestinian territory. Read more: German president talks refugees, Jerusalem on Jordan trip Criticism of US Gabriel also criticized US President Donald Trump's controversial decision in early December to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital and begin preparations for moving the US Embassy there. "We see no alternative to Israel and Palestinians negotiating the status of Jerusalem," Gabriel said, reiterating the position of the European Union and other European countries. According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, conquered Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. Since the year 63 CE, Jerusalem was under Roman rule. Resistance movements rapidly formed amongst the population, so that in 66 CE, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and a renewed destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately six hundred years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 CE. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 CE onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II finally called for the crusade. A total of five Crusades set out to conquer Jerusalem within 200 years. In 1244, however, the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again fell under Muslim rule. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the administrative seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele Speaking alongside Abbas on Wednesday afternoon, Gabriel also criticized the US for withholding funding for Palestinians. "We believe the [US] decision to withhold funds for the Palestinian National Authority and the Palestinian UN Refugee agency UNRWA was wrong," he said. The US had announced mid-January it would freeze a $65 million (€53 million) payment to the UNRWA until the relief agency had made changes to "the way it operates and the way it is funded." "We are prepared to work with others in Europe and in the region to make sure the situation for refugees does not worsen," Gabriel added. Read more: Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas seeks EU support in response to US Jerusalem move Gabriel met with Mahmood Abbas in Ramallah Wednesday afternoon Reconciliation? Gabriel's visit to Israel was his first since Netanyahu canceled a meeting with him in April after Gabriel refused to call off meetings with Israeli civic organizations that have been critical of Netanyahu's government. Gabriel acknowledged the previous spat on Wednesday, saying "we don't speak about that anymore." In response, Netanyahu said, "It is always an honor to meet a member of the German government." amp/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)