Cologne looked down and out heading into the Bundesliga's winter break. After winning one solitary match and recording a meager six points from 17 games, relegation looked all but certain for the Billy Goats. However a last-gasp winner against Borussia Mönchengladbach on the Bundesliga's return last weekend sparked hope of an improbable resurgence, and this weekend's fixture list provides Cologne with a golden chance to gain ground on their main relegation rivals. Victory over 17th-placed Hamburg would close the gap between them to just three points. And with 16th-placed Werder Bremen facing top-of-the-table Bayern Munich on Sunday, the idea that Cologne could pull to within touching distance (four points) of the possible safety of the relegation-playoff spot looks anything but implausible. "There is a clear development taking place with this team. I see a team that is fighting back," Cologne head coach Stefan Ruthenbeck told reporters at the prematch press conference. "This is a team that believes in itself and will not give up." Perfect debut New signing Simon Terodde scored on his debut, providing the dramatic injury-time winner against Gladbach and the 29-year-old could be the man to solve Cologne's goal-scoring woes. With just 12 goals in 18 games, they are easily the worst offensive side in the Bundesliga. Terodde was a goal machine during his last three seasons in the 2. Bundesliga, netting 66 in 98 matches. But he struggled with newly promoted Stuttgart in the first half of this campaign, grabbing just two goals in the league. If he can rediscover his form in front of goal, starting against Hamburg on Saturday, Cologne may have a chance to salvage a season that not so long ago appeared as good as over. Hamburg's Bundesliga future cloudy Hamburg, meanwhile, can ill afford a slip-up against a fellow relegation candidate. A promising two-win start to the season under coach Markus Gisdol quickly disintegrated, with the club losing 11 of their next 16 matches. Gisdol has somehow kept his job despite the woeful run of form, but a loss to bottom-placed Cologne could test the boardroom's patience. "The self-confidence is not there at the moment, the composure, the courage - we need to work persistently to get that back," Gisdol said. "We need to get back our strength at home because we have a lot of home games against the teams near us in the table in the second half of the season. Those games will be the most crucial for our survival so we have to win them. Hopefully we can start that on Saturday against Cologne." With no incoming transfers on the horizon, Gisdol will likely have to find inspiration from within his current crop of players. Anything less than victory will pile on the pressure, as three out of Hamburg's next four opponents - Leipzig, Dortmund and Leverkusen - are currently among the top five. Elsewhere on Matchday 19 —   Hertha Berlin vs. Borussia Dortmund: The big news ahead of this matchup is Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who has been left out of the squad for a second week running. All signs seem to be pointing to an imminent departure of the Gabon international. —   Hoffenheim vs. Bayer Leverkusen: The top of the table is a tight affair beyond Bayern Munich, with these two teams harboring legitimate Champions League ambitions. Inconsistent Hoffenheim need three points leading into their showdown with the defending champions on Matchday 20. —   Borussia Mönchengladbach vs. Augsburg: Augsburg have surprised many Bundesliga fans with their form this season. Seventh place could potentially turn into third with a victory over Gladbach this weekend. Matchday 19 fixtures Hertha Berlin vs. Borussia Dortmund (Friday, 8:30 p.m. CET) Hoffenheim vs. Bayer Leverkusen (Saturday 3:30 p.m.) Borussia Mönchengladbach vs. Augsburg Freiburg vs. RB Leipzig Wolfsburg vs. Eintracht Frankfurt Mainz vs. Stuttgart Hamburg vs. Cologne (Saturday 6:30 p.m.) Bayern Munich vs. Werder Bremen (Sunday, 3:30 p.m.) Schalke vs. Hannover (Sunday 6:00 p.m.)