The ongoing drama with Brexit is currently the main subject of British musician Matthew Herbert's latest project. Together with his Brexit Big Band Herbert addresses all the various issues and questions that Brexit raises – ironically on their European tour. The British artist has, for instance, turned Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty – the judicial basis for Brexit – into a jazz piece, tackling the political issue by humanizing it. But he doesn't stop at politics: Herbert, who strongly believes in the importance of European unity, has also included his criticism of misleading British media reports about Brexit as well as reactions from the public in his work. "The referendum about the Brexit was a deep shock for me although I had anticipated the result," Matthew Herbert told DW during a stopover in Brussels – the city that is often dubbed "the capital of Europe." "So I did reckon with the result, and yet I was totally shocked. I felt a strong urge to do something about it." Musical dialogue Shortly after the referendum, Herbert founded his Brexit Big Band. "My intention was to initiate a dialogue," Herbert explains. "The Brexit process is often boring, without any inspiration, and quite idiotic. I wanted to create the opposite of all that." During one of the first concerts after the referendum, Herbert wrapped himself in a British flag. "At first, I was afraid of possible reactions of the public. But when I noticed that most people were just laughing about my gesture, I gave a sigh of relief." Matthew Herbert at a dress rehearsal in Brussels with the Netherlands Brexit Choir and the Brussels Jazz Orchestra Matthew Herbert and his band are being accompanied by local choirs and orchestras at various stops of the tour, sometimes bringing together hundreds of musicians. During its most recent performance in Brussels at the 2018 Brussels Jazz Festival, for example, the Brexit Big Band was joined by the Netherlands Brexit Choir, as well as the Brussels Jazz Orchestra. The tour is personally significance for Herbert, too, who has crosses the English Channel many times for gigs in the past: "Over the last 20 to 25 years, I performed more than 2,000 times in Europe. I owe a lot to the Europeans who attended my concerts and bought my records. It's great to be able to say: 'Thank you very much – and my prime minister is an idiot.'" A maverick musician Matthew Herbert's career kicked off more than two decades ago when he started off producing and remixing electronic music. In addition to this, he also composed scores for movies and TV productions. In the last few years, Herbert shifted his focus on turning nearly everything into music. For his album "Around the House" he mixed typical household sounds into his pieces, and for his album "A Nude - the Perfect Body," he incorporated various sounds from the body – including many strange ones. Flying messages In the past, Herbert has used recordings from a pigsty in a musical protest against industrial livestock farming. This is featured on his album "One Pig." "It's all about making people listen to my music," he explained. His European tour alongside his "Brexit Big Band" is therefore clearly not the first time that Herbert has broached political topics in music. Now with his latest project, Herbert hopes to establish balanced and unbiased dialogue on the sensitive issues Britain's departure from the European Union. "All the reporting on Brexit is dominated by a handful of media moguls," Herbert criticized. "And too many people just don't have a say." Herbert criticizes British media reporting about Brexit That's why the musician tries his best to lend those who feel disenfranchised a voice: during his latest concert in London, Matthew Herbert asked the audience to scribble messages to Europe on pieces of paper, to fold them together into little paper airplanes, and to throw them toward the stage. In return, Herbert and the members of his band threw the paper airplanes back into the audience. The sounds created by these flying messages will be featured on the band's first album. British media reports have implied that Herbert's project is being promoted and paid for by the British music industry in order to sway popular sentiments on Brexit. The allegations have triggered a storm of protest by Brexit supporters. Since then, Herbert underlines that his Brexit Big Band isn't biased against Brexit at all, stressing that he had accepted the result of the referendum. "I feel as a European. I'm just trying to contribute something - rather than trying to reverse the referendum." Nevertheless, the social media outcry that followed those allegations inspired Herbert to write another piece of music about his experience. It is simply called "shitstorm." "Brexit is a waste of time" During each of the concerts of the tour, the band makes new recordings for its album, which is yet to be produced. The release date of that album, however, has already been agreed upon: Matthew Herbert and his Brexit Big Band have set the date of the album release on March 29, 2019 - the very day when Britain is expected to leave the EU – or perhaps not. Against all odds, Herbert still hopes that in the end, Britain will remain in the EU "Against all odds, I still hope that Brexit will never actually take place," says Herbert. "To me, it's just a waste of time." In his view, the last months have shown that the British government is apparently incompetent and lacking inspiration, not understanding that it isn't possible for Britain to simply leave the EU. Herbert thinks that it will take years, or even decades, until a full Brexit can be accomplished. In the meantime, he keeps working on unique ideas to share his love of music and his passion for Europe. On Brexit day itself, he hopes to continue bridging the rift between the European Union and the UK: "We want to give a concert on a Channel ferry going back and forth between Britain and France. I hope that will distract me from the events that day." Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon gives any existing member of the European Union the right to quit unilaterally and outlines the procedure for doing so. It gives the state concerned two years to negotiate a deal for its exit. Once Article 50 is triggered, it cannot be stopped, except by the unanimous consent of all member states. There are five elements in Article 50. They state that the exiting country must notify the European Council formally and that it is given a two-year period to reach an agreement. Article 50 also states that the country concerned cannot take part in EU’s internal discussions about its departure. The exit deal must be approved by a "qualified majority" and must also get the backing of MEPs. The UK decided in favor of leaving the EU in a referendum in June 2016. After lengthy parliamentary debates and legal procedures, Prime Minister Theresa May looks all set to send a formal letter of notification to EU President Donald Tusk on March 29, which will trigger Article 50. Officials in Brussels have already outlined a divorce bill for Britain of between 55 and 60 billion euros. The EU is expected to give a first response later this week. A summit of EU leaders on April 29 is then to lay down guidelines for the Brexit talks, which are expected to start in May or June. The hardest part of the negotiations will be determining the status of more than a million Britons living in other parts of the EU and of some 3 million EU citizens in Britain, and working out trade details. By autumn this year, the UK government is expected to introduce legislation to leave the EU and put all existing EU laws into British law - the Great Repeal Bill. The possible move will annul the 1972 European Communities Act (ECA), which gives EU law instant effect in the UK, and give parliament the power to absorb parts of EU legislation into UK law, scrapping elements it does not want to keep. EU leaders have said they want to conclude the talks within 18 months to allow the terms of the exit to be ratified by UK and the European Parliaments as well as the EU states. If no agreement is reached in two years and no extension is agreed, the UK automatically leaves the EU and all existing agreements. The fifth paragraph of Article 50 raises the possibility of a state wanting to rejoin the EU after having left it. This would be considered under Article 49. Author: Aasim Saleem