On Tuesday, the first day of a week-long Latin-America trip, Pope Francis asked "for forgiveness" for the "irreparable damage" done to children who were raped and molested by priests in Chile. His comments came as the number of Catholic churches that have been attacked in Chile in the past week rose to eight. In his first event, the pontiff met privately with Chilean President Michelle Bachelet at La Moneda palace. Addressing lawmakers, judges and other authorities later, the pope said he felt "bound to express my pain and shame" that some of Chile's clergy had sexually abused children who were in their care. Read more: Pope Francis arrives in Chile amid fury over priest abuse "I am one with my brother bishops, for it is right to ask forgiveness and make every effort to support the victims, even as we commit ourselves to ensuring that such things do not happen again," he said. Read more: Pope acknowledges Catholic church was 'bit late' in recognizing sexual abuse Pope Francis made no direct mention of Fernando Karadima, the country's most notorious priest, who was sanctioned by the Vatican in 2011, to a lifetime of "penance and prayer" for sexually molesting minors. He also did not mention the fact that Kadima, the emeritus archbishop of Santiago, knew of complaints against Karadima - a charismatic and well-connected priest - but did not remove him from ministry. Read more: Cardinal Bernard Law, symbol of Catholic Church's child abuse scandal, dies aged 86 Accusations from victims emerged in 2010 after people had been complaining for years to church authorities that Karadima would kiss and fondle them when they were teenagers. The scandal rocked the Catholic Church and greatly hurt its credibility, and many Chileans are still angry over Francis' decision, in 2015, to appoint a protege of Karadima as bishop of the southern city of Osorno. Read more: Australia child sex abuse study notes Catholic Church mandatory celibacy as cause Bishop Juan Barros has denied knowing about Karadima's abuse, but many Chileans don't believe him, and his appointment has badly split the diocese. "The Karadima case created a ferocious wound," Chile's ambassador to the Holy See, Mariano Fernandez Amunategui, told the Associated Press. The case, he added, has plunged the Chilean church into "crisis." law/kms (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)