As perennial underdogs in Germany's top flight, Augsburg regularly see their chances of survival written off  before a ball has been kicked. However, in every one of their six Bundesliga seasons to date they have managed to prove their doubters wrong, even clinching European qualification in the 2014/15 campaign. - Best of Bundesliga: Matchday 18 - Cordova looking to grow in "one of world's best leagues" -Impressive Augsburg defying the doubters Baum returns to the good, old days Die Függerstädter were one of just three top half sides, along with FC Bayern Munich and RB Leipzig, to pick up three points on Matchday 18. In the current campaign, they've been a far cry from the side that spent much of last season nervously looking over their shoulders. Ja Cheol Koo scored the only goal of the game as Augsburg beat Hamburg on Matchday 18. Currently sat in mid-table limbo, Manuel Baum has rediscovered many of the qualities that made Augsburg such undesirable opponents under the likes of Jos Luhukay and Markus Weinzierl, drawing comparisons to the side that finished fifth two seasons ago. The backline are once again exhibiting disciplined performances, limiting the individual errors that proved so costly last season, but it's the goalscoring department in which their improvement has been most significant. Aided by the tactical flexibility of a base 4-2-3-1 formation capable of morphing into either a 3-5-2 off the ball or a 3-4-3 on it, Baum has unleashed a previously untapped source of goals. A quartet in perfect harmony Summer signing Michael Gregoritsch, the club’s second most expensive transfer, has added an element of creative flair to a previously one-dimensional frontline. The glimpses of potential seen during his time in Hamburg have increased in regularity and, after just 17 games for Augsburg, the young Austrian is just two goals shy of matching the tally he amassed over 55 games with HSV. Perhaps more impressive has been Baum's ability to get the best out of a trio of players few pundits would have expected to leave such an indelible mark on the campaign. With injuries a thing of the past for both, Caiuby's pace and physical presence have seen him excel as an outlet on the left wing, while Alfred Finnbogasson's scoring boots have been taken out of storage. Both players would perhaps not be enjoying as prolific a season were it not for the man tying it all together: Philipp Max. Linked with Schalke, Chelsea and Manchester City after an impressive start to the season, Max has unquestionably been the Bundesliga's best left back this season. Likely to be Augsburg's next big money sale, the 24-year-old has racked up nine assists in 2017/18 - no other Bundesliga player has more than six. Augsburg need bigger aspirations The four aforementioned players have combined for 13 of Augsburg's 28 goals this season. When Augsburg qualified for Europe back in 2015, they boasted 16 different goalscorers, but just three players who had a hand in 10 goals or more over the course of the season. It's fair to say though, that the majority of fans would prefer the harmonious quartet of Max, Gregoritsch, Caiuby and Finnbogasson to the trio of Halil Altintop, Tobias Werner and Raul Bobadilla. Providing they avoid relegation, Augsburg will have once again achieved their season's targets. However, with just seven points separating second-placed Leipzig and Hertha Berlin in 11th, more is on offer for them. The question now is, can the club and their star quartet keep pulling the strings with expectations on the rise? After 16 games without a Bundesliga win, Cologne now have two in two games. A last gasp goal from Simon Terodde (number 9) sparked wild scenes and helped the Carnival Club to a 2-1 win over Rhine rivals Borussia Mönchengladbach that cuts the gap to the relegation playoff spot to seven points. Hope can be a dangeorus thing, but the Billy Goats will take it right now. Mario Gomez enjoyed his return to Stuttgart colors as he played a big part in his side's 1-0 win over Hertha Berlin. The striker tangled with Niklas Stark who ended up lobbing his own goalkeeper and sending the ball into his own net for the only goal of the game. Gomez is back and already making a big impact. Alexander Isak (pictured) was given the unenviable task of replacing Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang after the Gabonese frontman was supended by Dortmund for a breach of discipline. The young Swede was making his full league debut for the club and struck a post in the first half. But neither he or his teammates could find the breakthrough and the game finished goalless. Timo Werner celebrates RB Leipzig's second goal of the night, which made it 2-1 and put the hosts back on course for victory over Schalke. Werner had to settle for a place on the bench again, but the Germany striker reminded coach Ralph Hassenhüttl of his quality with another vital goal. Leipzig ran out 3-1 winners to go second — at least until Sunday — and end Schalke's 12-game unbeaten run. It's a Bundesliga baptism of fire for Nigel de Jong (number 5), who can only watch on as Hannover cut Mainz's 2-0 lead in half from the spot. The penalty came after the Dutchman lunged into a tackle. De Jong, a free transfer from Galatasaray, was unable to prevent his new team slumping to a crushing 3-2 defeat and Mainz have now gone six league games without a win and are sinking like a stone. Benjamin Hübner opened the scoring with a bullet header for Hoffenheim in Bremen. But Julian Nagelsmann's side were unable to hang on to their lead and eventually conceded an equalizer, with the game ending 1-1. Their tangerine kit is clearly not bringing them luck. In a close game between Augsburg and Hamburg, Koo Ja-cheol settled it in the hosts favor by thrashing in a header. The win moves Augsburg up a place to eighth and level on points with Hoffenheim as their impressive season continues. And the result will be a little sweeter for Augsburg, who lost to Hamburg on the opening day. Sebastien Haller celebrates giving Eintracht Frankfurt the lead against Freiburg, but it was a lead they were unable to hang on to. An equalizer by Robin Koch pulls them a point further away from danger and preserves their unbeaten run in the Bundesliga, which is extended to six games. But their next three games are against Rb Leipzig, Borussia Dortmund and Bayer Leverkusen... James Rodriguez fired a pinpoint free kick in stoppage time in Bayern's 3-1 win against Leverkusen. The Colombian midfielder had a goal and an assist in the game as he tries to solidify a starting role in Jupp Heynckes' team. 