Having received no new orders for the world's largest passenger airline for the past two years, Airbus admitted on Monday it might have to end production of the A380 double-decker jet. "If we can't work out a deal with Emirates, there is no choice but to shut down the program," the European aerospace group's chief salesman John Leahy told reporters in Paris. Airbus had been banking on additional orders of the superjumbo from the Dubai-based airline last November to complement its 100-strong A380 fleet, but instead Emirates sealed a deal to buy 40 Boeing Dreamliners. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ll7k Talks ongoing The plane maker is still talking to Emirates about buying more than 30 more of the A380 in order to secure future production. Read more: Major Airbus A320 and beef sales cap Macron's China visit Leahy said Emirates is "the only one who has the ability" to commit to a minimum of six planes a year for a minimum of eight to 10 years, which Airbus needs to make the program viable. Airbus's decision in 2007 to pursue the 853-seat A380 was diametrically opposed to Boeing's bet on the Dreamliner, marketed as a more efficient plane that could be used for both medium and long-distance flights. Despite Airbus's insistence that larger planes costing 535 million euros ($437 million) were the best way to tackle higher oil prices and environmental concerns, the A380's order book has always been lacking. Just 15 of the planes were delivered last year, with 12 more set for dispatch in 2018. The last order, for three jets, was made in January 2016 by Japan's ANA, and that was the first after nearly three years. Despite marking its 10th year in the skies last year, orders for the A380 have fallen dramatically as airlines struggled to make profits Airlines have complained that they have to fly every flight at full capacity in order to make a profit. Humiliating for Europe Abandoning the superjumbo would be a disappointing defeat for the Toulouse, France-based firm, which spent many years and many billions developing the behemoth, while forcing airports to build longer runways to allow it to land. Read more:  Major management shake-up at Airbus Airbus said the A380 program could continue with just six planes built each year, and hoped that China could in future lead a revival in orders once demand for long-haul planes picks up. Monday's announcement dwarfed news that Airbus had sold 1,109 planes last year, compared with its rival Boeing's 912 jets. But Boeing delivered 763 planes compared with 718 for Airbus in the same period. Looking ahead, Airbus Chief Operating Officer Fabrice Bregier said deliveries for 2018 could rise to 800, given the increased pace of production for the A320neo — Airbus's response to the Dreamliner. The A380 is simply impressive and puts almost every other competitor on the airfield in the shadow — literally. With a length of 72.7 meters (238 feet) the plane has a wingspan of 79.8 meters and is over 24 meters tall. On its two decks, the airline Emirates can accommodate 489 passengers in its three-class extra-wide-room version, and up to 615 passengers in its two-class long-range model. On April 27, 2005 the first official flight of the giant took place. After 3 hours and 54 minutes in the air, it landed safely. At the time it seemed inconceivable to fly with less than four engines. Since then it has become clear that a mere two turbines are enough to carry such giants — and for significantly less money. Yet developing this technology would likely run into the billions. Singapore Airlines was the first airline to deploy the A380. Here the proud new owners are shown on the tarmac in Toulouse — gathered together to document the great day. Back then on October 15, 2007, the future of passenger flying was still seen in terms of size: The more passengers transported at once, the more profit for the airline. The giant passenger jet was also well received by travelers. They weren't bothered that the boarding of so many passengers sometimes took a bit longer. However, the infrastructure of most airports is overwhelmed by the gigantic A380. For this reason, the aircraft flies most frequently between major airports like London, Frankfurt, New York and Singapore. It's not just competitors like Boeing that make life for Airbus difficult. The company's own structure is demanding and hinders streamlining. Individual components for the aircraft are manufactured in France, Germany, Spain, Great Britain, China and the USA. That's why the body of a giant A380 can be seen on a country road once in a while. Naturally, smaller planes are selling better than mega aircraft like the A380 — here the shell of the first model. Despite this commonly acknowledged fact, declining sales figures are a cause for concern. Last year only 28 A380s were delivered. This year it will be 15. Next year only 12 will leave the workshop. By 2019, Airbus only expects to deliver eight. Whatever the future of the A380 will actually look like, it is certain that Airbus has just ended a successful era. At the end of this year, the company's chief salesman, John Leahy, will retire. In his 23 years, he had been able to sell 15,500 aircraft for around $1.7 trillion. His successor will be measured by this — sales of more A380s would be helpful in any case. Airbus isn't the only one worried about mega planes. Its competitor Boeing only builds around six of its jumbo jets a year — and they are used for cargo. Yet the outgoing Airbus salesman John Leahy is nonetheless certain that passenger numbers will double. He sees the problem on the ground and not with the A380, complaining that airports need to be prepared. Maybe the A380 does have a future. Author: Dirk Kaufmann (tr) mm/hg (AFP, AP)