UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson reportedly mentioned his radical idea for an English Channel bridge during a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron at the recent Anglo-French summit. According to the UK's Daily Telegraph, Johnson told Macron it was "ridiculous" that two of the world's largest economies were only  "linked by a single railway," referring to the Channel Tunnel link, which opened in 1994. Macron replied by saying "I agree, let's do it," according to the daily. Read more: France offers to loan Bayeux Tapestry to the UK Johnson on Thursday tweeted that France's and Britain's success depended on "good infrastructure and good connections." He then asked "Should the Channel Tunnel be just a first step?," without giving any more detail. He has not discussed the idea in public. Speaking on Friday on French radio station Europe 1, French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire said "Why Not?" He went on to say that "all ideas, even the most eccentric ones, should be considered." Meanwhile, Shipping UK, which represents nearly 200 shipping firms, pointed out that building a 22-mile (35-kilometer) bridge "in the middle of the world's busiest shipping lane might come with some challenges," referring to the Dover Strait. The idea of a bridge over the English Channel is not new. This engraving is from 1890 UK Shadow Foreign Secretary Emily Thornberry rubbished the idea and accused Johnson of "running out of ideas to improve international relations." She also called Johnson a clown. Johnson has previously promoted the idea of a second Channel Tunnel but is now said to be favoring a bridge instead. He is known to have a soft spot for large infrastructure projects. As mayor of London he backed a "garden bridge" over the River Thames, a project that was scrapped by his successor, Sadiq Khan. He also once wanted to build an airport on the Thames Estuary dubbed "Boris Island." This observation deck on Mount Krippenstein in the Austrian Alps goes by the name "5 Fingers". It reaches out like a giant hand over a 400-meter vertical drop, offering those who reach the tips a truly awesome view of the Dachstein Mountains. There’s even a picture frame on the end of the first finger for you to take the obligatory souvenir photo. Just around the corner is the so called "World Heritage Skywalk", hovering 360 meters above the ground and boasting a unique panoramic view over Lake Hallstatt. The suspended platform was designed to resemble the front of a ship, and was named after the Hallstatt-Dachstein region’s UN Cultural Heritage Site status. Over half of Switzerland is covered in mountains, so there's no shortage of thrills for those with a head for heights. Standing 3,041 meters above sea level the "Titlis Cliff Walk" became a record breaker on its opening in 2012. Be warned however: it can get a little tight if you need to squeeze past someone along the 100 heart-pounding meters. Germany also has its fair share of Alpine skywalks. The "AlpspiX" is a steel construction extending over a 1-kilometer drop. Its two X-shaped arms both have glass ends to provide breathtaking vistas of the Höllental ("Hell Valley") below. The message here for visitors is very much "DO look down!" Mirador de Abrante is a restaurant with its very own skywalk on the island of La Gomera in the Canary Island chain. The seven-meter-long promontory boasts exclusive views over the picturesque village of Agulo and the Atlantic Ocean behind it. Perhaps best not to eat beforehand! The mountains and valleys of Norway have a plethora of breathtaking vistas. Hikers passing through Aurland might want to venture out onto this wooden ramp jutting 30 meters out over the treetops - boasting amazing views across the fjord 650 meters beneath them. The "Stegastein" walkway appears to run off at the end - but does have a frameless glass panel to stop you! The Czech winter sports resort of Dolní Morava reached new heights of innovation when it opened this skywalk in December 2015. You can take the spiral walkway up to the top and then plummet down a slide that’s almost 18 stories tall! Alternatively you can lie on a mesh net suspended over the whole structure, 55 meters above ground - a relaxing option for your body, even if not for your nerves! Trauttmansdorff Castle grounds in Merano, Italy are home to this extraordinary construction. The specially design platform gives visitors majestic views both of the Mediterranean gardens below and the surrounding Tyrolean mountains. You can see through the stairs leading up to the lookout point - but only if you want to. This viewing platform is attached to Austria’s highest dam: the Kölnbreinsperre. The 200-meter high wall is part of a series of hydroelectric power plants. The "airwalk" is reminiscent of a waterfall pouring over the edge into the valley. Among the many tourist attractions of County Antrim in Northern Ireland is this super-slim rope bridge linking the island of Carrick-a-Rede to the mainland. It’s suspended 30 meters above the sea, and was first erected by salmon fishers in the 18th century. The Piz Gloria restaurant on Switzerland's Schilthorn mountain starred in the 1969 movie On Her Majesty's Secret Service - although the skywalk premiered in 2014. Right next to where 007's enemy Blofeld had his HQ you can get your own real-life thrills, with world-conquering views of the Alps. Author: Christina Deicke ng/kms (dpa, Reuters, AP)