While Germany has a reputation for fast cars and open roads, thousands of drivers face ever-increasing delays and frustration due to traffic jams. A report from the German automobile club ADAC on Tuesday revealed that: The day last year which stood out for no-go travel was the Wednesday ahead of the Ascension holiday weekend. On May 24 traffic jams of 10,000 kilometers were reported, according to the  ADAC. Weekends, on the other hand, offered the clearest roads with just 1,583 kilometers of blockages. The reasons for the delays indicated by ADAC were an increase of 1.3 percent in truck mileage and road works. Of the 2,200 kilometers of motorway which should have been improved since 2015, only half of the works have so far been carried out. The A1 near Hamburg in July Germany has 644,480 kilometers of roads, with 12,917 of highways — many of them just two lanes. There have been a number of suggestions mooted in state and federal chambers to solve the traffic problems and as of 2019, drivers in Germany will pay a toll on all federal highways. A focus of blockage As in previous years, three areas accounted for two-thirds of all the traffic jams: North Rhine-Westphalia which suffered even more jams in 2017 than the previous year and accounted for 35 percent of all Germany's jams. Bavaria improved its traffic flow but still booked 18 percent of all traffic blocks and Baden-Württemberg, which accounted for 11 percent of the country's jams. The A3 Passau to Linz stretch kept its record for delays, largely due to border controls of cars coming in from Austria. Other traffic block spots were the A3 Oberhausen to Cologne and the A8 between Stuttgart and Karlsruhe stretch. The A4 near Gummersbach in January 2017 Summer and winter flows The longest traffic jams formed in June (147,306 kilometers) and in September (143,485 kilometers). In the holiday month of August, the length of jams fell to 110,572 kilometers. The best months for blockage-free travel were January, February and December as many construction sites were either finished or paused for the winter weather. For the world's worst evening rush hour traffic, GPS manufacturer TomTom reported last year that Bangkok, Thailand, Mexico City and Bucharest, Romania were top of their list. Berlin's inner-city AVUS is widely considered to be Germany's oldest autobahn. It was built between 1913 and 1921. Back then, it was only 10 km (6.2 miles) long. And because it was so short, many call the AVUS an autobahn prototype. The first "proper" autobahn in Germany went into operation on August 6, 1932, connecting Cologne and Bonn. Literally translated, the highway was officially called "vehicles-only road." Today, the stretch is part of the A555 autobahn. Historians make a point of emphasizing that the myth about Adolf Hitler commissioning the building of the first German autobahn is just that - a myth. The highway mentioned in the previous slide was a project initiated by the then lord mayor of Cologne, Konrad Adenauer. A look at national statistics around the globe reveals that Australia boasts the longest highway. Its National Highway (also known as Highway 1) spans the whole continent, having a total length of well over 14,000 km (8,700 miles). Germany for its part is known for one of the densest highway networks with a total length of roughly 13,000 km (8,077 miles). While this makes up only 6 percent of all long-distance roads in the country, almost a third of total road traffic depends on it. German Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt hopes the introduction of a passenger car toll for highways in Germany will wash around 500 million euros ($535 million) into state coffers annually. Opponents argue that's a myth, citing enormous infrastructure costs to collect the toll. Author: Hardy Graupner jm/rt (dpa with ADAC)