The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies on January 20 launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin. The intervention marks a major turning point in the seven-year Syrian civil war and adds further strain on relations between Turkey and the United States, two NATO allies that have been at odds over Syria. Why is Turkey attacking Afrin? Turkey has long threatened to root out Kurdish "terrorists" along its border with Syria. Afrin is controlled by the Kurdish militia known as the People's Protection Units (YPG). Ankara considers the YPG a terrorist organization linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), a Turkish-based militant group that has waged a decades-long insurgency against the central Turkish government. The YPG is the main component of the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a rebel alliance that controls around 25 percent of Syrian territory and has been at the forefront of the fight against the "Islamic State" (IS). The US has acknowledged the YPG in the SDF alliance despite labeling the PKK a terrorist organization. Washington has some 2,000 special forces in SDF areas mostly east of the Euphrates River, but none in Afrin. It has not voiced its support for the YPG there. For Turkey, attacking Afrin is about ensuring geopolitical interests and maintaining domestic security. Why is Turkey so worried about the Kurds? Ankara fears YPG gains in the Syrian civil war could have a knock-on effect on the Kurdish minority's demands for autonomy within Turkey. The Syrian Kurdish group has used the civil war to set up an autonomous region for what they envision to be a postwar federal Syria. Read more: Who are the Kurds? The YPG took control of Afrin and other Kurdish areas in the northeast of Syria in 2012 after the Syrian government withdrew to fight rebel groups and jihadi factions in other parts of the country. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rT02 What led up to the attack? Turkish-backed rebels carved out a "safe zone" in northern Aleppo province in early 2017 after a months long offensive that pushed IS from a section of the border. That mission — called "Operation Euphrates Shield" — aimed in part to block the SDF from connecting areas under their control in the northeast with Afrin to the west. The Turkish military and its Syrian rebel allies in October set up military posts in the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib, to the south of Afrin. The move was part of a "de-escalation" zone deal with Russia and Iran, both key backers of the Assad regime. Read more: Turkey's offensive in Syria: Why a muted response from the US and Russia? Speculation is rife that Turkey struck a deal with Russia and the Syrian regime, whereby Turkey agreed to stop supporting rebels in Idlib for Russia and Syria to give Ankara a free hand in Afrin. Russia controls airspace over Afrin, meaning that any Turkish military intervention probably required Russian approval. Turkish-backed rebels participating in the Afrin offensive are the same as those in the Euphrates Shield operation. What is Turkey's larger goal? Turkey seeks to secure a strong position at the negotiating table in Syria. Ankara has been concerned about how the civil war will end. The fight against IS has slowly wind down and the Assad regime has retaken large parts of the country with the help of Russian airstrikes. Once a main rebel backer, Turkey has since focused on working with Russia and Iran to end the conflict and set its sights on thwarting Syrian Kurdish gains. However, Syrian Kurds may try to use US cover to maintain autonomy in the north of the country. Washington has signaled it plans to keep its forces in some SDF areas for the foreseeable future. Read more: Syria conflict: Where does the Assad regime stand on the Afrin offensive? Russia, Iran and Syria also oppose a long-term US presence in Syria, but Turkey may not get their support against the YPG. Moscow, Tehran and Assad have indicated they are open to letting Syrian Kurds participate in peace talks. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurds have rarely fought Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with pro-Assad forces and moderate rebels, Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo and Idlib province. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson