A 37-year-old man said Monday he had found an 80-meter-long section of the Berlin wall that local authorities were unaware of. "According to my research, it is the last piece of the original wall," Christian Bormann told the Berliner Zeitung daily. The local government office responsible for monuments apparently did not know about the existence of the section. Records showed the section had been registered as dismantled. Bormann, a hobby historian, found the wall in Schönholz in the northern part of the city in 1999. He kept quiet about the discovery until Monday, when he decided to publish a post on his personal blog and contact local officials. Bormann said that he had observed storm damage at the site and was concerned about vandals, so he now felt compelled to inform authorities about the find. Read more: David Hasselhoff calls on Germany to save the Berlin Wall First phase construction Bormann said the communist government in East Germany — officially known as the German Democratic Republic (GDR) — built the section during the first phase of construction. The GDR closed the border to West Berlin and began assembling the wall on August 13, 1961 to separate East and West Berlin, which was controlled by West Germany. Early sections of the wall included barbed wire and alarms and were relatively unfortified. But later additions, including armed guard towers, turned the border into what locals referred to as a "death strip." Read more: Germany remembers rise of the Berlin Wall 56 years on 'Discovery of European significance' Over a hundred people died trying to cross the heavily fortified border — a symbol of the East-West division of the Cold War — before it began to be taken down in November 1989. The find impressed one politician: Arne Gericke, a Member of the European Parliament with the fringe party "Freie Wähler" (Free Voters), will visit Bormann on Thursday. The politician from the former East Germany told the Berliner Zeitung that Bormann had made a "discovery of European significance." Read more: Germans remember the night when the Berlin Wall fell East German authorities began patrolling the inner-German border in 1952. Until then it had been relatively easy to pass between the two. They sealed off West Berlin in 1961. Here, soldiers keep people from crossing as the Berlin Wall is built. In 1961, communist East Germany was having trouble keeping its young, educated population from emigrating to the West. The Berlin Wall was erected almost to completion in a single night, without warning, on August 13. This famous photo from September 1961 shows a woman trying to escape East Berlin through an apartment block where one side of the building faced the West. Some men try to pull her back inside while others wait underneath, hoping to aid in her escape. Amidst mounting internal and international pressure, a mistaken announcement by an East German official on November 9, 1989 led to the wall being opened. Germans on both sides of the border celebrated for days. New openings were made in the wall, like here at Potsdamer Platz two days later. Today, some parts of the Berlin Wall still stand as a memorial to hard-won freedoms. The famous East Side Gallery allows different artists from around the world to add murals to the part of the wall that remains on Mühlenstrasse in Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg. Politicians for the state government of Berlin lay flowers along the site of the Berlin Wall on Bernauer Strasse, 56 years to the day after it was constructed. At least 140 people were shot dead by East German border guards at the wall from 1961 to 1989. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher