The new director of the German Film Museum and Institute announced Tuesday that she would like to improve the organization's global connections going forward. In her role since January 1, the American-born also added that she would like to see a greater drive to send the museum's "successful and exemplary" exhibitions on international tours. She said she is already working to acquire new and important collections for the museum. Read more: Movies of a turbulent century — German film company Ufa turns 100 Throughout the year, the five-story museum in Frankfurt puts on a range of exhibitions, both permanent and temporary, related to German and international cinema. The museum also shows movies, lends out films, hosts projects and festivals and maintains a variety of archives. Harrington also expressed her desire to improve communication with the public about the concerns and duties of both the museum and the institute. She highlighted the importance of digital platforms in this process, alongside traditional media. Dialogue with cinema fans is key, she said. "The public is changing, making it even more important that we continue to work on … finding new ways to build visitor loyalty." Read more: How rare silent films are celebrated in Germany Academy veteran The 54-year-old Harrington took over the directorial leadership from Claudia Dillmann, who retired in September.  Before joining the German Film Museum, Harrington helped establish the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles, where she also planned numerous shows. She also served as the founding director of the Academy's International Outreach Program. According to German news agency epd, Harrington's first exhibit in Germany will be devoted to "2001: A Space Odyssey," the Stanley Kubrick science fiction classic that opened 50 years ago this spring. The German Film Institute was founded in 1949 and is Germany's oldest institution dedicated to film studies. Aside from the Frankfurt museum location, it has another location in Wiesbaden. Read more: How Germany's film age-rating system works The German Film Institute took over the running of the Film Museum in 2006. In 2011, the museum underwent a €13 million ($15.8 million) renovation, with significant financial support from both the state and the federal level. "The Blue Angel" (1930), now a classic of German cinema, is perhaps the film that best reflects the Ufa's first years of film production and established its international reputation. The film's lead, Marlene Dietrich, moved on to become a Hollywood star thanks to the role. The movie's depiction of Berlin from the 1920s still fascinates to this day. Many of the silent movies that had previously been shot in the Ufa studios in Babelsberg near Berlin also became film classics, including the works of directors such as Ernst Lubitsch, Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau and Fritz Lang. However, the latter's ambitious productions, such as "Metropolis" (1927, above) and "Nibelungen" (1924), put the company in deep financial trouble. Along with Fritz Lang, who established new ideals in cinematographic art direction, Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau also became an influential film director through his works produced at the Ufa studios. Murnau's acclaimed films include "Nosferatu" (1922) and "The Last Laugh" (1924, above), in which Emil Jannings plays a nameless hotel doorman who loses his job. Along with Lang and Murnau, Ernst Lubitsch was one of the best-known directors of the German silent-cinema era. Gaining international recognition with his comedies, Lubitsch moved on to Hollywood in 1922. Murnau and Lang followed later on. The Ufa established not only the careers of directors who would later make it big in Hollywood but also a series of stars. Lilian Harvey was one of them. She is best known for her role in the Ufa production "Congress Dances" (above), a musical comedy from 1931. After Hitler's seizure of power in 1933, the Ufa was quickly pulled into the Nazis' propaganda machinery. That same year "Hitler Youth Quex" was produced in the Ufa studios. Shown in the US under the title "Our Flag Leads Us Forward" and promoted as "a film about the sacrificial spirit of German youth," the work unequivocally demonstrated the studio's new role. The Ufa was also involved in the distribution of the Nazis' most prominent works of propaganda, including Leni Riefenstahl's so-called documentary "Triumph of the Will" (1935), which chronicles the 1934 Nazi Party Congress in Nuremberg. Hitler himself commissioned the film; his name appears in the opening credits as an executive producer. However, Ufa's biggest commerical success during the Third Reich era didn't star Hitler, but rather borrowed from traditional film genres. "Die große Liebe" (The Great Love, 1942) starred Zarah Leander, Viktor Staal and Grethe Weiser. The drama with musical numbers told a singer's love story with a lieutenant, showing him both on the front and off-duty. Sidestepping immediate political issues, Josef von Baky's fantasy comedy "Münchhausen" (1943) starred Hans Albers. The film, which aimed to distract the population from the war, was ordered by Nazi Propaganda Minister Goebbels to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Ufa film studio. Goebbels is said to have been strongly impressed by the Technicolor cinematography in "The Wizard of Oz." Germany was already losing the war when the Ufa invested huge sums in this production: Veit Harlan's "Kolberg" (1945) was the most expensive German film of World War II. Inspired by historical events, it mythologized how a besieged town defended itself during the Napoleonic Wars. The film aimed to bolster the morale of both the troops and the general population. Germany's defeat in 1945 also meant the end of the Ufa in its previous form. The Allies took over the country's structures and decentralized the film industry. The name Ufa, however, remained. At the end of the 1950s, the studio had a short comeback. Ufa's most remarkable post-war production is the film adaptation of B. Traven's novel "The Death Ship" (1959), starring Horst Buchholz. Over the following decades, the name Ufa became rather synonymous with a large movie theater chain. Since the 1990s, new works have been produced under the banner UFA, initially mostly TV series, then later for the big screen as well. The film "The Physician" (2013) is one of the recent big-budget productions of the production company. UFA, now spelled in capitals, has obtained international recognition with some of the TV series it has produced. Among them is the eight-episode series "Deutschland 83," which won an International Emmy Award. Author: Jochen Kürten (eg) cmb/cmk (dpa, epd)