—  Turkey is enraged about US plans for a Kurdish-led "border force" in Syria —  A Turkish attack would further strain relations with the United States —  It is unclear how Russia will respond —  Moscow has ties with the Kurds and controls airspace in Idlib and Afrin Turkish artillery shelled the Kurdish-held area of Afrin in northwestern Syria for the third day on Monday, as Ankara threatened to act on long-running threats to root out Kurdish forces from near its border. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned of an imminent attack on the Kurdish-held enclave located near the Turkish border, saying in televised remarks on Monday that military "preparations have been completed; the operation could start at any moment." Afrin is controlled by the Peoples' Protection Units (YPG), a Kurdish militia that Ankara considers a terrorist organization linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), an outlawed group waging a four-decade insurgency inside Turkey. A Turkish assault on Afrin would further strain ties with the United States over Syria and a US-based Turkish cleric Ankara blames for a failed coup in 2016. The YPG is the main component of the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a force that includes Arabs and has been at the forefront of the fight against the "Islamic State" (IS). Rojhat Roj, the YPG spokesman in Afrin, said Kurdish forces would "defend our gains, our territories" in the event of an attack. The YPG have occasionally skirmished with the Turkish military and Turkish-backed rebels throughout the Syrian civil war. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurds have rarely fought Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with pro-Assad forces and moderate rebels, Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo and Idlib province. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson Border force Erdogan also warned the United States after Washington on Sunday announced plans to create a 30,000 strong border security force, half of which would be SDF fighters. US-led coalition officials said more than 200 new cadets had already been recruited to the force. The border force announcement comes as the offensive against IS winds down and the focus turns to maintaining internal security in SDF-controlled areas. "America has acknowledged it is in the process of creating a terror army on our border. What we have to do is nip this terror army in the bud," Erdogan said Monday. Erdogan has repeatedly vowed to crush the Kurds in Afrin. Syria and Russia also condemned the planned border force, accusing the United States of failing to protect Syria's sovereignty. Washington "doesn't want to preserve the territorial integrity of Syria," Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Monday. The Syrian government called the border force "a blatant encroachment upon the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Syria" and a violation of international law. Turkish fears The SDF now controls about 25 percent of Syria's territory in the north and northeast. The rapid successes of the SDF have raised concerns in Turkey about what an endgame in Syria will look like now that the fight against IS has de-escalated and the Assad regime has also retaken large parts of the country from rebels after Russia intervened militarily in late 2015. The Syrian Kurds have created facts on the ground and set up autonomous structures for what they envision to be a future federal structure in Syria. They claim they have no desire for independence. But Turkey fears the empowerment of Syrian Kurds will have a knock-on effect on its own Kurdish minority. Ankara also wants to prevent what it views as an embryonic PKK statelet on its southern border. In this context, from Ankara's viewpoint, Afrin is a point of leverage over the Syrian Kurds. Turkey preps offensive Erdogan's signal of an imminent military intervention against Afrin comes after Turkish-backed rebels and the Turkish military in October moved into parts of the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib to implement a "de-escalation" zone. The move was part of a deal with Russia and Iran, both key backers of the Assad regime. Idlib is one of the last major rebel pockets in Syria and is largely controlled by an al-Qaeda-affiliated rebel alliance. Hundreds of thousands of internally displaced civilians are camped out in the province, raising concern that a Russian and Syrian offensive in recent weeks could send a new refugee flood across the border to Turkey. The Turkish military has set up observation posts and other positions in Idlib just south of Afrin, which is effectively surrounded by Turkey and Turkish-backed rebels. Rebels backed by the Turkish military carved out a "safe zone" in northern Aleppo province earlier last year after a monthslong offensive that pushed IS from a section of the border. The Turkish-backed military operation, known as Operation Euphrates Shield, was designed to remove IS from a section of the border and block the SDF from connecting areas under their control in the east with Afrin further to the west. Operation Euphrates Shield involved Free Syrian Army fighters backed by Turkish forces Question marks over Russia Turkey was one of the biggest supporters of rebels seeking to oust the Assad regime, but Ankara's calculation changed after Russia's military intervention made it clear that toppling the regime was unrealistic. Turkey has since focused on working with Russia and Iran to end the conflict and set its sights on thwarting Kurdish gains. However, Russia also has political ties with the Syrian Kurds and has sought to include them in Moscow-backed Syrian peace talks in Sochi despite Turkish resistance. On several occasions, Russian military officials in Syria have made a point of appearing in pictures with the YPG/SDF, including late last year during an offensive to clear IS from the eastern province of Deir el-Zour. In other instances, Russia commanders have posed with YPG flags and fighters in Afrin, where Russia reportedly has a small military base. These public displays of closeness came at times when Turkey was threatening Afrin, in a sign that Russia may act as a break on any future Turkish offensive against the enclave. Russia controls the airspace over Afrin and Idlib, making a Turkish intervention without Moscow's sign-off militarily and politically difficult. At the same time, Russia seeks to further open a chasm between Turkey and the United States, and hence within NATO. By playing the proverbial Kurdish card and signing off on a Turkish offensive against the YPG/SDF in Afrin, Russia would aid that goal but at the expense of other objectives in Syria. cw/tj (AP, AFP) 