Following reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is seeking to soon interview US President Donald Trump, the president himself said on Wednesday he would be willing to answer questions. "I'm looking forward to it, actually," Trump, speaking to reporters at the White House, said about a possible interview with Mueller. "I would do it under oath," he added. Read more: Steve Bannon 'subpoenaed as part of Robert Mueller's Trump-Russia investigation' Mueller, who is investigating alleged Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election, is also examining whether Trump tried to obstruct the Russia probe in his firing of former FBI Director James Comey. June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians." An FBI agent told a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, said there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announced it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers. Senator Jeff Sessions - an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee - met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event. Julian Assange's WikiLeaks published 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders. The FBI announced it was investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected president of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov said there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issued a firm denial. Trump named General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Acting attorney general Sally Yates told White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fired Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts. Trump said he had "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI Director James Comey confirmed before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign. In a letter announcing the termination, Trump wrote: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau." Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Shortly after Mueller convenes a grand jury for the investigation, the FBI seizes documents from one of Paul Manafort’s properties as part of a raid for Mueller’s probe. The former Trump campaigner manager stepped down in August 2016 after allegations surfaced that he had received large payments linked to Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government. Donald Trump Jr. tells the Senate Judiciary Committee he has not colluded with a foreign government. The closed-door interview relates to his June 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, which was also attended by his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and then campaign manager Paul Manafort. Trump Jr.’s emails, however, suggest the meeting was supposed to produce dirt on Clinton. Facebook, Twitter and Google reportedly tell US media they have evidence that Russian operatives exploited platforms to spread disinformation during the 2016 US presidential election. The three companies are expected to appear before a Senate Intelligence Committee in November. Author: Jo Harper, Kathleen Schuster Trump also told reporters that he doesn't remember asking then-acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe last year about who he voted for in the 2016 election. On Tuesday, the Justice Department confirmed on Tuesday that US Attorney General Jeff Sessions was questioned for several hours by Mueller's team as part of the probe. Trump offers compromise on 'Dreamers' issue The president also told reporters that he was willing to open a pathway to citizenship for immigrants who were brought to the US illegally as children, known as "Dreamers." A new immigration bill could allow for "Dreamers" to obtain citizenship 10 to 12 years from now. "We are going to morph into it," Trump said about the citizenship pathway. "It's going to happen, at some point in the future, over a period of 10 to 12 years." His comments suggest that progress has been made towards negotiating a deal for over 700,000 "Dreamers" who were protected from deportation and allowed to work under an Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Trump ended DACA last year, but gave Congress until March to find a legislative solution. Democrats unsuccessfully attempted to tie a solution to the DACA issue into a measure to fund the federal government, but Republicans rejected the effort, prompting a government shutdown that lasted from Saturday until Monday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2mq0R rs/se (AP, AFP)