The first-ever Europe-wide strategy on plastics was adopted Tuesday as part of the European Union transition toward a circular economy. Among it main thrusts are that all plastic packaging on the EU market should be recyclable by 2030; that the consumption of single-use plastics shall be reduced; and that the intentional use of microplastics will be restricted. DW discussed the newly adopted strategy with her, along with the next steps in fighting plastic pollution. DW: You sent a joint letter asking for ambitious action ahead of the EU plastics strategy decision. What were your main points? Skog had hoped for more concrete measures from the EU plastics strategy Karolina Skog: We mainly asked for concrete measures on plastics. We asked for actions against microplastics, for stronger responsibility on the ways plastic is exported out of the EU, and for strong measures to get packaging reduced and easily recyclable. Have you seen your requests fulfilled with this new strategy? All the issues that we have raised from Sweden within this letter, and in other circumstances, are present in the strategy. For instance, there is some action planned against microplastics, which is very good. But we had hoped for more concrete action and more concrete legislative measures, which are the main way forward for example when it comes to single-use plastic. The European Commission has started discussing stronger restrictions for microplastics. However, this is only a first step. What do you think would be the appropriate measures for tackling this problem? From Sweden, we want a complete ban on intentionally used microplastics in the EU. We are preparing a national ban, but we do think that the right measure should be a European ban on all added microplastics. The European Commission has also started discussing the viability of imposing a tax on plastic products. What's your view on this? Generally, in Sweden we do see taxes as a national competency, and that makes us reluctant to use it at the EU level. In terms of action against plastics, we do focus on legislative measures more than tax measures. Microplastics are defined as smaller than 5 milimeters in diameter. But these tiny particles accumulate in the sea, can enter the food chain, and are even found in the air. Personal care products containing microplastics, such as toothpaste, represent one of the most common intentional uses of microplastics in our daily lives. Some cosmetic products can contain as much plastic added as the amount of plastic in which they are packaged, experts indicate. Exfoliating daily washes very often use of microplastics, often termed "micro-beads," which then get flushed into the household wastewater stream. Via wastewater, microplastics reach the oceans, where they move enter the food chain through feeding zooplankton. In 2017, researchers found that 25 percent of marine fish tested in markets in Indonesia and California had plastic and textile fibers in their guts. Research is still lacking as to whether consuming microplastics through fish harms humans. Several studies published in 2017 showed that microplastics have also been found in sea salt from the United States, Europe and China. It's not surprising, considering how plastic debris represent between 60 to 80 percent of the total marine waste, and that up to 12 million tons of plastic waste ends up in the ocean every year. Beside microplastics in seafood like fish, shrimp and mussels, scientists point to other foods, such as honey. In the recently adopted European Union plastics strategy, honey was mentioned as one of the food products containing microplastics — to motivate a push toward a ban. Aside from micro-beads in hygiene products, synthetic textiles also release a vast amount of tiny plastic fibers into wastewater. Researchers found that a typical 6-kilogram (13-pound) washing load of acrylic-fabric items (like fluffy blankets) generates more than 700,000 individual fibers. Synthetic fabrics account for around a third of ocean microplastics. Vehicles tires are also a main source releasing microplastics into the environment. Tires are made of synthetic polymers mixed with rubber, which grinds down when used. This generates microplastics that are either blown around by the wind or washed away by rain. Norwegian and Swedish researchers agree that a large proporation of particles found in the sea come from car tires. Microplastics have also been found in tap water. In an analysis of tap water samples from countries around the world, more than 80 percent were contaminated with some amount of plastic fibers. If synthetic fibers are in tap water, they are also likely to be in a number of other basic foodstuffs, like bread. And yes, if tap water contains microplastics, beer could very well also be contaminated. A 2014 study found plastic particles in a total of 24 German beers - but variability in the results was high, and further research would needed for verification, the German Environment Agency has pointed out. In any case, cheers for now. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz What is the role of potential alternatives to plastics, such as bio-based materials, in this transformation? I see a need to have further research and go deeper into the question of biodegradable materials. Biodegradable plastics might play a role for some specific uses, but we must be very careful and make sure that anything that is marketed as biodegradable in the European market, is really biodegradable in natural circumstances. For example, oxoplastics are not biodegradable, but only break down into smaller pieces — it is even worse than normal plastic. We must be very strict on what can be called biodegradable and how to inform the consumer about it. Sweden is considered revolutionary regarding recycling. What makes you so successful? Long and hard work. We have strong measures at local and national levels, and a transparent system, which I think is very important. We have had a deposit-refund system for PET bottles for a long time, and it has been very successful. Yet we're working on measures to raise the level of recycling even more — particularly on plastics. We're working, for instance, on introducing more packaging and material into the deposit-refund system. I’m also not content that most of the plastics that are sorted out in the EU are exported to third countries, because we know way too little of what's happening when it reaches Asia or Africa. We need more recycling facilities in Europe, and I am working on how to figure out which policy could make investment in recycling treatment in Europe viable. A large proportion of our waste ends up in developing countries Sweden has also been importing waste from other countries and using it for heat and energy through incineration. Yet, incineration is not as beneficial as recycling, from an environmental point of view. What's the future of waste incineration? We think incineration is a sustainable method, but it must not be overused. Quite a lot of material that can be recycled is being incinerated, and we're not content with that. Therefore, we are looking at measures to make the incineration less economically viable and instead make recycling easier — easier for the consumer, but also more economically viable. What are the remaining challenges regarding plastics for the EU to reach a sustainable model? Stopping the export of sorted out plastics outside the EU and making sure that we get investment in recycling facilities in Europe. We need a transparent, coherent and economically viable recycling system. Karolina Skog is the Swedish environment minister. She is a member of the Green Party, and served as a city commissioner in Malmö before the cabinet appointment. The Yangtze is Asia's longest river and the third-longest river in the world. It also tops the list of river systems through which the most plastic waste flows into the oceans, according to a recent study. The Yangtze flows into the East China Sea near Shanghai and is crucial to China's economy and ecology. The river basin is home to 480 million people — one-third of the country's population. The Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research found 90 percent of plastic flowing into oceans can be traced to 10 rivers. The Indus ranks second on the list. One of Asia's largest rivers, it flows through parts of India and Pakistan into the Arabian Sea, supporting millions of people. While much plastic enters rivers because of a lack of waste infrastructure, sewage systems contribute too. Plastic can enter the food chain as fish and other marine and freshwater animals ingest it. The Yellow River, said to be the cradle of Chinese civilization, is third on the plastic-waste list but that's not the only environmental problem with which it contends. Pollution has rendered much of the river's water undrinkable. Around 30 percent of its fish species are believed to have disappeared too. Another of China's rivers, the Hai, comes in at number 4. It connects two of China's most populous metropolitan areas, Tianjin and Beijing, before flowing into one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, the Bohai Sea. The 10 river systems share traits, says the study. One is that they are located in densely populated areas with a lack of waste infrastructure and little awareness of recycling. Generally thought to be the world's longest river, the Nile flows through 11 countries before entering the Mediterranean Sea in Egypt. Some 360 million people live in the river basin where its waters support agriculture — the region's main economic activity. Irrigation and evaporation mean the river doesn't even reach the sea in dry periods. Still, it comes in at number five in the ranking. The Ganges is central to Indian spiritual life and provides water to more than half a billion people. Sewage, agricultural and industrial waste have made it one of the world's most polluted rivers, as have the multitudes of plastic that end up in it. Cleaning up the waste - as students are doing in this picture - is important, but experts say we must produce less and stop pollution at the source. Here, workers clear floating waste from China's notoriously dirty Pearl River, which enters the South China Sea between Hong Kong and Macau. Sewage and industrial waste flow into the river delta, keeping apace with the region's incredible rate of urban expansion. Since the late 1970s, the delta has transformed from a mainly agricultural and rural region to one of the world's largest urban areas. It's not until they hit urban and industrial areas that rivers feel the worst effects of pollution. Still, according to recent studies, plastic debris is even being found in remote and "pristine" locations. The Amur River rises in the hills of northeastern China and forms much of the border between China's Heilongjiang province and Russia's Siberia before it snakes out to the Sea of Okhotsk. The Niger is West Africa's main river, supporting over 100 million people and one of the planet's most lush ecosystems. It flows through five countries before entering the Atlantic Ocean in Nigeria. Plastic pollution aside, extensive dam construction is affecting water availability — and frequent oil spills in the Niger Delta have caused widespread water contamination. Dams are having major ecological and social impacts on the Mekong too. Around 20 million people live in the Mekong Delta. Many are dependent on fishing and agriculture for survival. The river flows through six countries in Southeast Asia, including Vietnam and Laos, and is tenth on the list of river systems that carry most of the 8 million tons of plastic that are dumped into the seas each year. Author: Jennifer Collins