After 517 games for Bayern Munich, 113 for his country, a World Cup title, a Champions League triumph and eight German league titles, it's understandable that the 34-year-old Philipp Lahm is regularly asked why he hung up his boots. In an article for Bild on Wednesday, Lahm attempted to answer that question. "As it was a very subjective feeling, I appreciate most people couldn't understand that something had changed for me. But I'm sure that had I kept playing, that fine line, one that I had already felt, would have become visible at some point," wrote Lahm, who felt he couldn't keep reaching the standards he set himself. Once he became captain, he became a mentor and talked with teammates. His greatest reflection was within himself though - and that's where the first seeds of retirement were sown. "At the start of every season, I always asked myself - am I meeting my own standards? Can I still do it? I didn't want to come to the conclusion that I couldn't during a season." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2mFxT Smooth transition Unlike many footballers who leave the game, Lahm was not left with a void though. His transition away from the game was aided by his work in business, and of course more time with the family. Perhaps most all though, Lahm just felt the timing. "When I watch Bayern games today, I'm convinced that my retirement was also the right move for the team. The team could restart and a new hierarchy could be formed." Bayern have certainly moved on from Lahm and Bastian Schweinsteiger, but perhaps a true new era for the club will only begin once Arjen Robben and Franck Ribery also call time on their careers. The return of Lahm to Bayern in a non-playing capacity has always seemed likely, and the former right back admits he is considering where and how he can best put his experience to use. First though, like he did in his career, he must be ready. "Of course I can still imagine working with Bayern Munich again at some point, but those who know me know I like to be prepared." Lahm will soon be seen as an ambassador for Germany's 2024 European Championship bid, but while his life off the pitch continues to evolve, he remains as humble as ever about what he achieved on it: "If I had to summarize my career, I hope fans remember me as a good football player - I believe I was, not more, not less." Born in Munich, Lahm joined Bayern's academy from FT München Gern at age 12. He was a life-long Bayern fan and even served as a ball boy in the Olympic stadium in Munich. Lahm impressed at Bayern's youth levels, making his second team debut in 2001 at 17. Lahm made his debut against Lens in the Champions League November 13, 2002, two days after his 19th birthday. That was the only appearance he made for Bayern before joining Stuttgart on loan for two years. He helped them to two consecutive third-place finishes. While on loan at Stuttgart, Lahm received his first caps with the German national team. He made his debut on February 14, 2004 and became coach Rudi Völler's first choice at left back. Lahm's first major international tournament was the 2004 European Championship. Lahm had to miss six months in 2005 after suffering a knee injury in his last days with Stuttgart. Once he returned, it didn't take him long to convince Bayern coach Felix Magath of his quality. He made 29 appearances in his first season with Bayern as they went on to win a domestic double. Philipp Lahm married Claudia Schattenberg on June 4, 2010, just days before the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. Only one footballer, best friend and former teammate Andreas Öttl, was in attendance. Lahm currently resides in Bogenhausen, a town near Munich. With Michael Ballack set to miss the World Cup in South Africa with an injury, Germany coach Joachim Löw elected to make Lahm his new captain. Under Lahm's leadership, Germany finished third for the second straight time. Lahm's third season as Bayern's captain was arguably his best, clocking up 19 assists in 47 appearances. He also got to finally lift a Champions League trophy as part of Bayern's first ever European treble. His talents were already well known by the time Pep Guardiola came to Munich, but the newly appointed coach brought out a new side of Lahm in midfield. The drastic tactical move baffled the footballing world, but Lahm excelled. "Philipp Lahm is perhaps the most intelligent player I have ever trained in my career," Guardiola said. A year after reaching the pinnacle at the club level, Lahm claimed the biggest prize in the international game. He helped Germany achieve their first World Cup title in 24 years in Brazil, playing both in midfield and at his familiar right back position. He retired from international football after the tournament. Author: Davis VanOpdorp