Oskar Gröning's bid to avoid a four-year prison sentence for his role as a guard at the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz was rejected by German authorities on Wednesday. "The clemency request has been denied," Wiebke Bethke, a spokeswoman for the prosecutors' office in Lüneburg told news agency epd. She did not provide further details. Although his legal options are running thin, Gröning could still appeal his clemency request to the Justice Ministry of Lower Saxony, the northern state where Lüneburg is located. Read more: Opinion — The Nazis' support staff are not without guilt As Hitler's Propaganda Minister, the virulently anti-Semitic Goebbels was responsible for making sure a single, iron-clad Nazi message reached every citizen of the Third Reich. He strangled freedom of the press, controlled all media, arts, and information, and pushed Hitler to declare "Total War." He and his wife committed suicide in 1945, after poisoning their six children. The leader of the German National Socialist Workers' Party (Nazi) developed his anti-Semitic, anti-communist and racist ideology well before coming to power as Chancellor in 1933. He undermined political institutions to transform Germany into a totalitarian state. From 1939 to 1945, he led Germany in World War II while overseeing the Holocaust. He committed suicide in April 1945. As leader of the Nazi paramilitary SS ("Schutzstaffel"), Himmler was one of the Nazi party members most directly responsible for the Holocaust. He also served as Chief of Police and Minister of the Interior, thereby controlling all of the Third Reich's security forces. He oversaw the construction and operations of all extermination camps, in which more than 6 million Jews were murdered. Hess joined the Nazi party in 1920 and took part in the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch, a failed Nazi attempt to gain power. While in prison, he helped Hitler write "Mein Kampf." Hess flew to Scotland in 1941 to attempt a peace negotiation, where he was arrested and held until the war's end. In 1946, he stood trial in Nuremberg and was sentenced to life in prison, where he died. Alongside Himmler, Eichmann was one of the chief organizers of the Holocaust. As an SS Lieutenant colonel, he managed the mass deportations of Jews to Nazi extermination camps in Eastern Europe. After Germany's defeat, Eichmann fled to Austria and then to Argentina, where he was captured by the Israeli Mossad in 1960. Tried and found guilty of crimes against humanity, he was executed in 1962. A participant in the failed Beer Hall Putsch, Göring became the second-most powerful man in Germany once the Nazis took power. He founded the Gestapo, the Secret State Police, and served as Luftwaffe commander until just before the war's end, though he increasingly lost favor with Hitler. Göring was sentenced to death at Nuremberg but committed suicide the night before it was enacted. Author: Cristina Burack The 96-year-old was convicted of being an accessory to the murder of 300,000 people during his time as a guard and bookkeeper at Auschwitz and was sentenced to four years in prison. At the end of December, Germany's Constitutional Court rejected Gröning's attempt to suspend his 
sentence  due to health reasons. The court found no identifiable health risks and said that his prison sentence "carried a special weight." Gröning voluntarily joined the Nazi's elite Waffen-SS at the age of 21 and was stationed at Auschwitz in 1942. Read more: Nazi trial against Auschwitz medic Hubert Z. to be suspended He was a bookkeeper who sorted and assessed money and valuables taken from prisoners before sending it back to his superiors in Berlin. During his trial in Lüneburg, Gröning said he felt "a moral guilt" for his work at Auschwitz, but said he had not personally been involved in mass murder. Should Gröning decide not to appeal his clemency request, prosecutors in Hanover could soon summon him to begin serving his jail sentence. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qOkM rs/sms (dpa, AFP, epd, AP)