The EU executive unveiled plans on Tuesday to make all plastic packaging in the bloc recyclable by 2030. Europeans produce 25 million tons of plastic waste annually, but less than 30 percent is recycled. Microplastics are also enter the air, water and food systems with unknown consequences on human and wildlife health. "If we don't change the way we produce and use plastics, there will be more plastics than fish in our oceans by 2050," said European Commission First Vice-President Frans Timmermans. "The only long-term solution is to reduce plastic waste by recycling and reusing more." Under proposals put forward at the beginning of 2018, British Prime Minister Theresa May says she is hoping to eradicate avoidable plastic by 2042. Her outline plan to create a "cleaner, greener Britain" includes a suggestion to encourage supermarkets to introduce plastic-free aisles. Attitudes towards plastic bags are changing across Europe. Governments in many countries including Luxembourg and Denmark have slapped a tax on single use carriers, while individual supermarkets in Germany are increasingly removing them from their shelves in favor of more durable reusable alternatives. Kenya went a step further in August 2017, when it made it illegal to produce, sell or use plastic bags in the country. At the time it came into force, the nation was estimated to be using some 24 million bags a month. Anyone violating the restrictions faces up to four years in prison or a fine of €31,616 ($38,000). Zimbabwe has also made changes to its packaging policies. It has outlawed styrofoam containers for fast food in order to create space for more environmentally-friendly alternatives such as paper or corn-based containers. Ahead of implementation, snack bar owners were encouraged to offer their customers a place to sit in and eat. The Scottish government has announced plans to outlaw both the sale and manufacture of plastic-stemmed cotton ear buds, which all too often are flushed down the toilet and end up in the sea. Alternatives made entirely from biodegradable materials would still be allowed. Read more: Six date visualizations that explain the plastic problem Read more: EU eyes high-tech cleanup for plastic pollution in rivers Under the European Commission's plans, by 2030 all plastic packaging in the EU market would need to be recyclable. Single-use plastic use would also be reduced. Microplastics, which are found in cosmetics and other products, would also be severely restricted. The EU executives plans must now be approved EU governments and the European parliament. In addition, the plan would boost funding and investment in more environmentally friendly recyclable plastic materials and improve recycling processes. The goal of the European Commission is to lay the foundation for "a new plastic economy" that is more sustainable, leads to innovation and job growth while making Europe a world leader in a plastics transition.