Thailand on Wednesday charged nine protest leaders over anti-government demonstrations in 2013 and 2014 that led to the ousting of former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and a consequential military coup. Those arrested were members of now-disbanded Thailand's People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC), including Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister, who played a major role in the movement, encouraging protests with speeches and leading daily marches that saw Thailand's capital Bangkok come to a standstill. The nine protest leaders face eight charges for their roles in the protests, including insurrection, sedition, and obstructing a 2014 general election, said Prayut Bejraguna, a deputy spokesman for the office of the attorney-general. Suthep and Chumpon Julsai, a former Democrat MP, also face an additional terrorism charge, Prayut added. Read more: Thai parliament votes military coup leader as new prime minister Accused plead not guilty The nine men pleaded not guilty to the charges, Suthep told reporters after the court session, adding that each was granted bail of 600,000 baht ($18,948, €15,380) and is banned from travelling overseas until the end of the trial. Yingluck's brother, Thaksin Shinawatra is a wealthy businessman and former PM of Thailand. As founder of the Pheu Thai party, he was popular among rural poor, but unpopular among rich elite. In 2006, Thaskin was accused of fraud and ousted in a military coup. He fled Thailand in 2008 and faces two years in jail if he returns. Shinawatra-affiliated parties have won every Thai election since 2001. As successor to her brother, Yingluck Shinawatra was elected as PM of Thailand in 2011. She enjoyed the popularity of Taskin's base but was also targeted by his opponents, who accused her of being a political proxy for her exiled brother. Before she was elected as Thailand's first female PM, she had never held a political position or government post. Yingluck's flagship policy, which helped her win the 2011 election, was a rice subsidy program aimed at her base where the government paid poor farmers 50 percent more for rice with the intention of providing a minimum wage. The plan backfired with regional competitors undercutting Thai rice exports, resulting in huge stockpiles and alleged losses to the state of $17 billion (14.25 billion euros). In May 2014, Yingluck was ousted from office by the Thai constitutional court after it ruled she had abused power in transferring a senior aide to another position. This was combined with months of public protest against a proposed amnesty bill for those involved in violent protests after her brother was forced from power. The Thai military took power and they continue to rule the country. The "red shirt" protesters, who are loyal to the Shinawatra family, oppose Thailand's elite, royalist class backed by the military. Yingluck's supporters see the moves against her as an attempt to finally oust the family from power and eliminate its political influence in Thailand. Loyalists to the Thai royal family, ruling elite and military are known as "yellow shirts." They say that the Shinawatras abuse their power for their own gain and accuse them of creating populist policies to attract the poor electoral majority in Thai society. They consider this a threat to the traditional ruling class. Multiple clashes between reds and yellows have resulted in dozens of deaths. In 2015, Yingluck was charged with criminal negligence and dereliction for her role in the failed rice subsidy scheme. She was also impeached for the same charges, and not allowed to participate in Thai politics for five years. She fled Thailand in August 2017, before a ruling on her case was to be announced. In September 2017, she was sentenced, in absentia, to five years in jail. Thai politics has been dominated for over a decade by a power struggle between the traditional elite and the Shinawatra family. Political scientist Wolfram Schaffar told DW that the goal of pursuing the Shinawatras has been to "weaken elements of direct democracy." Other experts say that Yingluck's exile leaves Thailand without an opposition figure and allows the military to rule indefinitely. Author: Wesley Rahn "Whether we are right or wrong, we will fight it out in the justice process ... because we believe in Thailand's justice system," Suthep said. "We will insist on pushing to reform Thailand, no matter at what cost." The 2013-2014 protests saw violence that left 28 dead and caused conflict in the country which the army said justified its overthrow of the government. It was the 12th successful takeover since 1932. The PDRC and its supporters protested for seven months, aiming to remove Yingluck, and her billionaire brother, ousted former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who had gained huge support among the rural poor in the country's north and northeast. The PDRC claimed that Yingluck was a puppet for her brother, who was forced out by the military in 2006 and is currently in self-exile to avoid serving jail time for a 2008 corruption conviction. Read more: Yingluck Shinawatra trial: Former Thai PM handed five-year sentence Yingluck fled Thailand last August, ahead of a verdict in a negligence trial that eventually found her guilty and gave her a five-year jail term. Prayut said Thailand's attorney-general planned to file charges against 34 other PDRC leaders who did not show up in court on Wednesday. The case comes ahead of elections set to take place in late 2018. law/es (AFP, Reuters)