The lower house of German parliament devoted its afternoon session on Wednesday to the annual commemoration of the victims of the Nazi regime. For the first time since World War II members of a far-right party were sitting in the Bundestag. Since last September's election, the Alternative for Germany (AfD) has 92 members in the 709-seat Bundestag, and the party has already presented a piece of legislation to the house aimed at preventing refugees whose close relatives are still in war-torn countries from bringing their families to Germany. The Berlin-based International Auschwitz Committee released a statement last week ahead of the commemoration, once again warning against the rise of right-wing populism across Europe. "It has long since become blatantly clear that so-called right-wing populism is increasingly trying to destabilize parliaments, media and democratic institutions from both the inside and the outside and to incite contempt for them among citizens in many European countries," Executive Vice President Christoph Heubner said. Anita Lasker-Wallfisch was 17 when she arrived in Auschwitz in 1943 The main speaker in the Bundestag on Wednesday was 92-year-old Holocaust survivor Anita Lasker-Wallfisch, a German-Jewish cellist who survived 11 months in Auschwitz by being forced to play in the camp's women's orchestra. In November 1944 she was moved to Bergen-Belsen along with her sister Renate (who was also in the Bundestag on Wednesday), before being liberated by British troops in April 1945. Speaking to the RND network of German newspapers, Lasker-Wallfisch said she would use her speech to warn against the revival of anti-Semitism in Germany and elsewhere. "People still talk about Jews as if they were a threat, an amorphous mass," she said. "We're just people." The Holocaust survivor, who now lives in London, also praised Chancellor Angela Merkel for welcoming refugees into the country during Europe's refugee crisis. "I think that Ms Merkel took a very courageous step in 2015," she said. "But I also fear that that step has re-awoken the worst in the Germans." Lasker-Wallfisch's speech was preceded by a musical recital of the 1924 piece "Prayer" by Ernest Bloch, with Lasker-Wallfisch's son Raphael Wallfisch playing the cello. Auschwitz orchestra She recounted her own story in an interview with the public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk, aired on Wednesday morning. "'You play cello? Fantastic! Stay here, I'll come right back','" Lasker-Wallfisch remembered another captive saying on her arrival. "So she ran off and got the conductor of this small orchestra and said that a cellist had arrived. It was my luck that at the time they didn't have an instrument that played low notes." The orchestra was tasked with playing music during the arrival of new transport trains, most of whose occupants were immediately murdered in gas chambers. "Every morning thousands of people marched out into these different factories and we sat and played marches," said Lasker-Wallfisch, who was born in Breslau, now Wroclaw in Poland. "And in the evening it was the same thing: we went to the gate with chairs and music-stands and we played again. As soon as it was finished we went back to our block and practiced. We played all day." Some 1.1 million people were murdered at Auschwitz alone during the war, before it was liberated by the Soviet Red Army on January 27, 1945. That date has been marked as International Holocaust Remembrance Day since 2005. Other speakers on Wednesday included German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Bundestag President Wolfgang Schäuble. "We remember not as people personally guilty, but out of the guilt of previous generations grows a responsibility," Schäuble, who spoke first, said in his speech. "The rule of law and democracy demand our engagement." "The majority of people are not xenophobic, but every day people are attacked here because they look different," he added, addressing a rise in hate crime in the past few years. "We should be disturbed if the majority of Jewish people in this country say they have been victims of anti-Semitism." Read more: Opinion: Germany must never forget Holocaust Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2reUz