Normality and order slowly returned to Germany on Friday after it was battered by winter storm "Friederike." At least eight people died across the country as winds up to 203 kilometers per hour (126 miles per hour) lashed western Europe on Thursday. Read more: Deadly storm Friederike wreaks havoc across Western Europe A tree is lying on the tracks in the western German region of Westphalia, which was one of the hardest hit by Friederike. People held onto each other in the western city of Cologne as they struggle during heavy winds. Friederike caused several buses to flip onto their sides - this accident happened near the western city of Bonn. Uprooted trees and branches injured and, in some cases, killed people as Friederike tore through western Europe. People were kept away from Cologne's iconic cathedral on Thursday as authorities were concerned gusts of wind could blow pieces of stone from the building's facade. Train travelers in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia didn't get to watch the landscape slide past on Thursday afternoon. Rail travel was also halted across the Netherlands. Some drivers defied warnings and attempted to navigate the snow and winds in Hamburg, Germany's northernmost major city. Schools sat shuttered in the Lower Saxony region of Oberharz as snows from Friederike piled up outside. Friederike's winds and rain were strongest in northwestern Germany and the neighboring Netherlands and Belgium. However, the storm left deep snow in the Black Forest and across the southwestern state of Baden-Württemberg. Friederike is the biggest storm to hit Germany and the region since October's Xavier, which shuttered transit stations and tore trees right out of the ground — and sometimes both at once — in Berlin. Surveying the damage Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r73y How Deutsche Bahn reacted "In large parts of Germany, neither air, car nor rail transport was possible," said Berthold Huber, member of the Deutsche Bahn Board of Management responsible for passenger transport. "The decision to put the safety of our passengers and staff above everything else was the right one," he said, referring to the decision to halt all long-distance trains during the storm. "The first long-distance trains are en route," a Deutsche Bahn spokesman told dpa news agency. "We expect that in the course of the morning, all large cities will be able to be reached with long-distance trains — with some restrictions," a statement said. Read more: German high-speed train breaks down on return from Berlin-Munich maiden voyage How much damage did the storm cause? The German Insurance Association estimated insured losses at €500 million ($615 million), but that did not include uninsured losses. Deutsche Bahn estimated its repair costs at several million euros. Do storms often cause train chaos? Trains are often delayed or canceled due to weather. But the last time Deutsche Bahn canceled all long-distance trains Germany-wide was in 2007. How did this storm compare to previous storms? "Friederike" was considered to be the heaviest storm in Germany since "Kyrill" in 2007, which insurers said cost €2 billion, but 2015's "Niklas" caused slightly worse damage. What happens next? Rail authorities are surveying lines with helicopters, then testing them with empty trains before opening them to passengers. aw, rs/sms (AFP, dpa, Reuters)