High-ranking officials from Ankara were due to hold talks with representatives of Germany's Interior Ministry in Berlin on Wednesday, according to a report in Die Welt newspaper. The meeting — the first of its kind in almost a year — aimed to discuss efforts to fight the "Islamic State" terror group, the report said. "Germany is a point of origin and a destination for jihadi terrorists, whose journeys to and from Syria take them via Turkey," an Interior Ministry spokeswoman told Die Welt. Read more: Germany and Turkey in 2017: a rollercoaster relationship She said Turkey had repeatedly been the target of "massive attacks by Islamist terrorists," adding that there was still a very real "need to work in close cooperation with Turkey" to tackle terrorism. Read more: Are there signs of a thaw in icy Germany-Turkey relations? Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qRl1 Years of tensions Security consultations between the two NATO allies had lapsed, mainly due to a deterioration in bilateral ties. The last such meeting was held in February last year when Chancellor Angela Merkel made a state visit to Turkey. Relations took a particular turn for the worse following a botched coup against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in July 2016. The Turkish leader accuses Germany of harboring supporters of Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen, the man Ankara claims was behind the revolt. Almost 8,000 Turkish citizens applied for asylum in Germany between January and November 2017, according to Interior Ministry figures quoted by Die Welt. Berlin, meanwhile, has vocally criticized Erdogan's post-coup crackdown, which has seen thousands of alleged Gulen followers — including several German citizens — rounded up and jailed. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 17, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier In recent weeks, however, the situation appeared to be looking up. In early January, the foreign ministers of both countries pushed for a normalization of ties. A number of German citizens who had been jailed in Turkey have also been released, although German journalist Deniz Yücel, who has been held for more than 10 months without any formal charges, remains behind bars. nm/se (Reuters, dpa)