Nigerian police freed the four foreigners in an operation in Kagarko, Kaduna state, following a massive manhunt, a police spokesman said Saturday. "They have been rescued thanks to the efforts of the police," spokesman Muktar Aliyu said. "All of them are in good condition of health." He added that due to trauma, the victims had been taken to the capital, Abuja, to undergo medical observation. The four were driving from Kafanchan, Kaduna, to Abuja on January 17 when they were ambushed by gunmen who shot dead two of their police escorts. Read more: Six kidnapped seamen freed in Nigeria Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1J6Yp According to police, at least one person has been arrested in connection with the kidnapping and more suspects are being sought. Aliyu said the foreigners were in the country to invest in solar stations in villages around Kafanchan. Kidnapping for ransom is common in Nigeria, but Aliyu said no ransom was paid for their freedom. Two German archaeologists were seized at gunpoint last year and were later freed unharmed. In July 2016, Sierra Leone's defense attache to Nigeria was kidnapped by armed men in military fatigues at a fake checkpoint on the Kaduna-Abuja road. Read more: Nigeria: Mixed reactions to Maiduguri curfew A US State Department travel advisory urges American citizens to "reconsider" traveling to Nigeria, warning that violent crimes such as armed robbery, assault, carjacking, kidnapping, and rape happen frequently. Read more: Nigerian militants kidnap oil survey team In a separate incident, police in the Delta state said five Nigerian oil workers from local firm Sahara Energy were kidnapped on Thursday. Delta state police said no arrests had been made. fm/nm (Reuters, AP, dpa ) "You notice one thing straightaway - the children here hardly ever laugh," says a helper at Malkohi camp, close to the Nigerian city of Yola. The camp now accommodates almost 300 people who were liberated in early May from Boko Haram captivity. About half are under 18 years old. Every third child is malnourished. Lami Musa is the mother of probably the camp’s youngest resident. One day before she was rescued by soldiers, she gave birth to a baby girl. During the army’s liberation operation, several women were killed by the terrorists. "I just held my daughter tight and protected her with my body," the young mother said. Halima Hawu was less fortunate. One of her three children was run over and killed as they were being abducted by the terrorists. During the army operation, she was shot in the leg by a Nigerian soldier, as Boko Haram members used the women as human shields. "The pain is still there but perhaps the worst is now behind us," she hopes. Three-year-old Babaka spent six months in capitivity. Food was provided irregularly. There was just some maize for the children every now and then, former captives say. When the soldiers came, the little boy was close to death from starvation. Babaka is still extremely weak. He has not yet received adequate medical care in the camp. Babaka’s mother was taken to the nearby hospital in Yola, together with about 20 other seriously injured people. Someone who had been in front of them as they fled trod on a landmine. The massive explosion badly injured the woman and killed a baby she was carrying. Apart from some donated clothing, little international aid has reached the women and children at Malkohi camp. Much is in short supply, especially medical personnel. There is no trace of the doctor who was supposed to be on duty. The provisional clinic is being run by just two nurses and a midwife. "I don’t understand why our national emergency agency doesn’t do more," says social worker Turai Kadir (seen here). She acted on her own initiative and found a doctor to take care of the children worst affected by malnutrition. That is really the task of NEMA, the Nigerian Emergency Management Agency, but it is totally overwhelmed. Regina Musa recently returned from the US to teach psychology at Yola University. Now she is helping provide psychological care for the women and children in the camp. "The women have demonstrated unbelievable strength," Musa said. During the traumatic period of captivity many cared for children who were not their own. "We have to help them understand how important that was." Author: Jan-Philipp Scholz / sh