"Racism hasn't died out, unfortunately, but as members of the human race we are responsible for one another," says Anita Lasker-Wallfisch. "Nobody entered the world wearing the label 'superhuman' or 'subhuman.' We are the ones who invented these labels." Lasker-Wallfisch became an outspoken advocate of humanistic values and tolerance comparatively late in life. For decades, she refused to talk about her childhood in Germany or her years in detention at Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen – not even to her own children. Then, in the early 90s, she wrote her memoirs under the title "Inherit the Truth" and began regularly visiting Germany, a land she had long refused to set foot in, often telling her story to school classes. It is a story of flight, imprisonment, forced labor, making music under the most trying circumstances, emigration and finally, a career in music. Lucky criminal Now 92, Anita Lasker was born into a German-Jewish family in 1925 in Breslau (today Wroclaw, Poland). Her father a lawyer and her mother a violinist, the family had no illusions about the designs of the Nazi regime and successfully got Anita's oldest sister Marianne to safety in England in late 1939. The parents were deported in 1942; Anita was 16 and never saw them again. Anita Lasker Wallfisch (r.) and her sister Renate Lasker Harpprecht (l.) in 2001 Entering an orphanage, Anita and her sister Renate were working in a paper factory and thus not immediately deported themselves. There they began forging papers to enable French forced laborers to cross back into France. Later, Anita Lasker-Wallfisch explained, "I could never accept that I should be killed for what I happened to be born as, and decided to give the Germans a better reason for killing me." When the sisters themselves tried to escape to France with forged passports in June, 1943, they were arrested at the train station and sentenced to prison. Five months later, Anita, then 18, and her sister were deported separately to Auschwitz. Her stay in jail turned out to have been a blessing in disguise, as she was went on a prison train and thus separately from those who generally, on arrival, went straight to the gas chambers. "We were fortunate to have been classified not as Jews but as criminals," Anita Lasker-Wallfisch said years later during a speech in Bergen-Belsen. Ticket to survival After mentioning that she could play the cello, the young woman Anita was inducted into an orchestra of prisoners led by Alma Rosé, Gustav Mahler's niece. "The cello saved my life," she later said. The orchestra played marches as the slave laborers left the camp in step for work every morning and when they returned in the evening. On Sundays, the girls performed for the SS. Watchtower and creamatorium at Bergen-Belsen In November 1944, with Soviet troops approaching Auschwitz, Anita and her sister were sent to the camp at Bergen-Belsen. "None of us ever believed we'd actually leave Auschwitz some other way than through the chimney," she later said. That moment that summed up life in Auschwitz: "We didn't know from one day to the next whether we would live. People disappeared all the time. Even the way we were deported to Bergen-Belsen – ten minutes before, nobody knew we'd be sitting in cattle cars." Emigration to Great Britain Drastically overoccupied, conditions were much worse in Bergen-Belsen. Many died of malnutrition, and she even witnessed instances of cannibalism. "Auschwitz was a camp where people were systematically murdered," Lasker-Wallfisch later wrote in her memoirs. "In Bergen-Belsen, they just died." Even there, however, music was made: Anita played in a group of eleven female musicians from the former Auschwitz orchestra. After British troops freed the camp on April 15, 1945, Anita Lasker-Wallfisch was a witness in the Bergen-Belsen Trial. She emigrated to Belgium and, in 1946, on to Great Britain. In London, she was a founding member of the English Chamber Ochestra and played cello in that much-recorded and widely-traveled ensemble until the turn of the millennium. Lasker married the pianist Peter Wallfisch, who also had come from Breslau and taught as a professor at the Royal College of Music in London. She had two children. Long refusing to set foot in Germany, she paid her first post-emigration visit in 1994. Her autobiography "Inherit the Truth" was published in 1996. Queen Elizabeth spoke with Holocaust survivors during a visit to Bergen-Belsen in 2015 A strange optimism In the years to follow, she traveled to Germany several times, giving lectures at schools, where she told of her life and that of other victims of National Socialism and the Holocaust. "It took fifty years for me to talk about it," Lasker-Walfisch recently said in an interview with Radio Bavaria. "But it's not as though this is the only thing I think about." She was among the survivors who were invited to join Queen Elizabeth II in June 2015 in the group of the onetime concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen. The red sweater she had worn there decades earlier is exhibited at London's Imperial War Museum. In 2016 she was awarded the Prize for Understanding and Tolerance of the Jewish Museum in Berlin. In her speech at the Bundestag marking the liberation of Auschwitz 73 years ago, Anita Lasker-Walfisch, who today lives in London, will warn of a current upswing in antisemitism in Germany. Yet her message is also one of optimism. "As long as one breathes, one hopes," says Lasker-Walfisch. "I've spoken to thousands of students. If ten of them behave properly, I'll be satisfied." "It's not as though I can't think of anything else," says Lasker-Wallfisch about her life as a Holocaust survivor One recurring theme in her lectures is an exhortation: "Talk to each other before you kill each other, go drink a cup of coffee together. Celebrate your differences!" On the occasion of Anita Lasker-Wallfisch's speech in Germany's parliament, her son Raphael Wallfisch, also a cellist, will perform "Prayer" - a piece from "From Jewish Life" by the composer Ernest Bloch.