Kenyan police on Wednesday arrested opposition legislator and lawyer T.J. Kajwang after he attended opposition leader Raila Odinga's fake swearing-in ceremony on Tuesday, opposition official Norman Magaya said. Kajwang stood next to Odinga on the podium wearing clothes mimicking traditional robes as the opposition leader underwent the symbolic inauguration that was attended by thousands of opposition supporters. Odinga lost an election re-run in October 2017 to current President Uhuru Kenyatta, who was sworn in two months ago. Read more: Kenya: Huge crowds at opposition leader's 'swearing in' ceremony How Kenyatta's government has responded Elections on August 8, 2017 were expected to be a neck- and-neck affair between incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta and his rival Raila Odinga. A week ahead of the hotly contested vote, Christopher Musando, IT department chief of Kenya's Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), was found dead. He was one of the few people with key information about the election management system. IEBC servers were supposedly breached in the 2013 polls. The violence many Kenyans had feared and anticipated erupted just a few hours after the election results, handing victory to the incumbent, started to trickle in. Dozens of people were killed, mostly in the opposition strongholds. Refusing to accept the outcome of the poll, Raila Odinga turned to the Supreme Court. The election was free and fair, international observers said, despite opposition allegations of rigging and hacked servers. Former US Secretary of State John Kerry, who headed a group of election observers from the Carter Center, also endorsed the vote. To no avail, however as on September 1, Kenya’s Supreme Court declared the vote neither "transparent nor verifiable" and nullified the August 8 presidential elections, in which the IEBC had declared President Uhuru Kenyatta the winner with more than 54 percent of vote. The court called for new elections within 60 days. A disappointed Uhuru Kenyatta, who had already received hundreds of congratulatory messages, called the Supreme Court judges 'crooks.' The Chief Justice emerged an African hero for taking a firm decision to annul the results that were in favor of the incumbent president. Kenyatta's rival Raila Odinga pulled out of the re-run of the presidential election scheduled for late October. Odinga said he wanted to allow for the electoral commission to make fundamental reforms that would deliver a "credible election." The opposition boycott targeted giants in the telecommunications industry and companies that deal in dairy products, cooking fats and oils. Raila Odinga took the lead, publicly migrating from the Safaricom phone network, whose client he had been for the last ten years, to a new provider called airtel. In November, Kenya’s Supreme Court upheld President Kenyatta's victory in the controversial October re-run, which he had won with 98 percent of the vote on a turnout of 39 percent. The court dismissed two petitions that argued the second poll had not been conducted according to law. Kenya, where politics have been characterized by ethnic tensions since independence in 1963, is deeply split along an ethnic divide that has triggered a debate on splitting the country into two. It’s now up to the two political heavyweights, Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, (flanked above by the Archbishop of Canterbury) to bring the country back to normalcy. Author: Fred Muvunyi Opposition co-leader's home attacked One of Odinga's co-leaders of the opposition National Super Alliance coalition (NASA), Kalonzo Musyoka, who was to be sworn in as his deputy, failed to show up at the event because his bodyguards had been withdrawn. Read more: Kenyan election: Kenyatta 
sworn  in amid high security and opposition rally A few hours after the ceremony on Wednesday, Musyoka said his home had been attacked in the early hours of the morning, with shots and a stun grenade fired at his house. Police are investigating. 'Assault on freedom of expression' In a statement, the government said the channels that had been shut down had ignored a government briefing before the inauguration event and tried to broadcast it live. The statement said live broadcasting would have provoked violence and "would have led to thousands of deaths of innocent Kenyans." The shutdown of TV and radio stations prompted the Media Council of Kenya to release a statement that said it was "shocked at the recent turn of events." Thousands of opposition supporters attend opposition leader Raila Odinga's fake inauguration in Uhuru Park in Nairobi Read more: Kenyan police accused of rape in opposition strongholds after 
elections,  says HRW "A political contest has turned into the greatest threat and assault on freedom of expression and media in Kenya's recent history," it said. International rights groups also criticized the move. "Kenyan authorities have restricted media coverage at a critical moment, and violated the public's right to information about important events," said Otsieno Namwaya, an Africa researcher at Human Rights Watch. Read more: Political tension grips Kenya after Supreme Court backs Kenyatta win Why hold a fake swearing-in ceremony? Odinga believes that he is the rightful leader and Kenyatta is illegitimate. An election on August 8, 2017, was won by Kenyatta with 54 percent of the vote and then annulled by the Supreme Court, which ordered a re-run on October 26. Odinga boycotted the second vote and Kenyatta won with 98 percent. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rmrR law/sms (AP, dpa, Reuters)