With the #MeToo movement making almost daily headlines, the Litprom association of German professionals in the fields of publishing, journalism, literary studies and criticism has invited 12 female writers from all over the world to the Literaturhaus Frankfurt to redefine female world literature. "What sounds abstract at first is much more concrete when you look at the numbers," said Anita Djafari, head of Litprom. When it comes to literature prizes, published authors and translations, she pointed out that only 25 to 30 percent are attributed to women. Even at the Frankfurt Book Fair, "70 percent of authors were men last year," said Juergen Boos, the book fair's director. "I was shocked to find out what it is really like." Global works The Litprom aims to make literature from Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Arab world available to readers in Germany — in German. The association was launched at the Frankfurt Book Fair in 1980, the year it focused on creative writing from sub-Saharan Africa. "It's unthinkable today that one would lump all the works from so many different countries in one group," said Anita Djafari. She added that back then, the region was actually known as "Black Africa," and that change in terminology shows that progress has been made. Litprom doesn't only lobby for women but, with financial support from the German Foreign Ministry, also works with publishers to ensure quality translations of books by male and female authors from these overlooked regions. An award only for non-European women, however, was launched 30 years ago, the LiBeratur Prize, which will be handed out at this year's Frankfurt Book Fair in October. Anita Djafari advocates for non-European female writers 30 years of discussion A unique program is underway to celebrate the anniversary. Laureates from past years will gather on January 26 and 27, including Fariba Vafi from Iran (2017), the Indonesian poet and journalist Laksmi Pamuntjak (2016), Canadian novelist Madeleine Thien (2015), Raja'a Alem from Saudi Arabia (2014), Argentine Claudia Pineiro (2010) and Mayra Montero from Cuba (1998). Is writing in itself a form of female empowerment, even a rebellion? Ken Bugul from Senegal is certainly one of the rebels, as is Indian-born Meena Kandasamy. Dima Wannous from Syria, Kenya's Yvonne Adhiambo Owuor and Lina Meruane from Chile will also take part in the program, questioning female role models in the framework of patriarchal suppression. Award-winning German writer, translator and publisher Zoë Beck will focus on women and violence, while Korean-born German-language author Anna Kim will take a look at the meaning of home between local and global influences. Empowering women "Globalization has reached people; many are on the move and choosing new places to live," said Ines Pohl, DW's editor-in-chief and patron of the award. Laksmi Pamuntjak, an Indonesian poet and novelist, won the LiBeratur award in 2016 "The fact that cultures converge on many levels calls for understanding from both sides, and often enough, it's the women who hold families together and integrate them in a new surrounding after an escape or migration. The writers supported by Litprom make an incredibly important contribution to a better understanding and a peaceful coexistence." But even today, female writers have to position themselves against inequality and discrimination. Litprom opposes the far-right, xenophobia and racism, said Djafari, at a time when a rise in nationalism and populism make vying for attention as well as production conditions in many countries increasingly difficult for female writers. Read more: 100 days of #MeToo Women, power, sexuality The anniversary program doesn't make explicit mention of the #MeToo debate. Women, power, sexuality — these issues are mainstays in women's literature. "Take Han Kang's 'The Vegetarian,' a novel many people know, about a woman who experiences violence and has no choice but to resort to silent rebellion," said Djafari. "The theme is always present, be it in books like this or in works like that of Fariba Vafi, last year's honoree, which describes everyday life." While novels should not be a substitute for political pleas, they can influence social processes with literary and verbal force. The books nominated annually for the LiBeraturpreis and the award-winning female authors are proof of that. In 1971, Italian director Luchino Visconti surprised the world with his film adaptation of German author Thomas Mann's 1912 novella "Death in Venice." Visconti's movie is very close to the narrative tone of the original. The film starring Dirk Bogarde is ponderous, melancholy — and stunningly beautiful. This film from the early days of sound movies is an excellent example of an arresting movie adaptation of a literary work. US director Lewis Milestone brought the horrors of WWI to the screen in 1930, based on Erich Maria Remarque's novel "All Quiet on the Western Front." The Nazis made sure the movie was rarely shown in Germany. A best-selling book turned into a successful film: that's the exception rather than the rule, in particular if the book touches on a difficult topic. Bernhard Schlink's novel "The Reader" looks at the repercussions of the Nazi era in Germany, and how the country deals with its past. Stephen Daldry's 2008 adaptation was a strong film also thanks to the superb actors, Kate Winslet and David Kross. In 1975, two years before leftist Red Army Faction insurgents started making headlines in Germany with kidnappings and murders, Volker Schlöndorff adapted Heinrich Böll's novel The lost Honor of Katharina Blum for the screen. The novel gives a detailed description of the social atmosphere in West Germany at the time. Schlöndorff cut right to the chase and hit the mark. The movie "In Times of Fading Light" was released in 2017, six years after Eugen Ruge's novel tracing the life of a family in East Germany hit the book stores. Another example of a well-done adaptation of literature, director Matti Geschonneck's satirical movie explores the last days of the East German regime with humor and tragic depth. Timur Vermes' 2012 debut novel "Look Who's Back" was a smash hit in Germany. His satire featured a character Germans tend not to take lightly: Adolf Hitler. The dictator wakes up in a park in Berlin in this millennium — and everyone believes he is an actor. David Wnendt adapted the book into a movie in 2016. Our absolute favorite is the adaptation of one of the most successful German novels ever. It took 20 years before Patrick Süskind's 1985 bestselling historical fantasy novel "Perfume — The Story of a Murderer" was finally turned into a movie. Director Tom Tykwer carried it off magnificently, with entertaining, sumptuous scenes starring Ben Whishaw and Karoline Herfurth. Author: Jochen Kürten (db)