Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas arrives in Brussels on Monday for diplomatic talks with EU officials, hoping to prompt a strong response by the bloc to US President Donald Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the Israeli capital. Abbas will urge EU diplomatic chief Federica Mogherini and the bloc's 28 foreign ministers to play a more active role in the Middle East peace process, after declaring that he would no longer accept the Trump administration as meditator in future negotiations with Israel. In a fiery speech earlier this month, Abbas said that recent US peace efforts for the Middle East and the Jerusalem decision amounted to the "slap of the century." Read more: Donald Trump's Jerusalem decision sparks global outcry In an interview with the news agency AFP, Palestinian Foreign Minister Riad al-Malki said that "since Trump's decision has altered the rules of the game, he (Abbas) expects  European foreign ministers to come forward and collectively recognize the state of Palestine as a way to respond to Trump's decision." However, it remains unlikely that Abbas will receive much in the way of concrete proposals. While France is reportedly keen to grant the Palestinian leader an association agreement with Brussels, other states remain cautious over a deal with a country yet to achieve full sovereign capacity. According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, conquered Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. Since the year 63 CE, Jerusalem was under Roman rule. Resistance movements rapidly formed amongst the population, so that in 66 CE, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and a renewed destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately six hundred years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 CE. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 CE onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II finally called for the crusade. A total of five Crusades set out to conquer Jerusalem within 200 years. In 1244, however, the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again fell under Muslim rule. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the administrative seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele EU committed to two-state solution Although the Palestinian Authority is "very serious" about such an agreement, it also expects Palestine to eventually be formally recognized as a state. "One does not replace the other. Absolutely not," Maliki said. Last week, Luxembourg's Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn said his and several other countries — including Ireland, Portugal and Poland — would back such a move. While this appears unlikely to happen in the immediate future, the European Council tweeted on Sunday that its position on the Middle Peace process had remained the same, in spite of Trump's Jerusalem decision: A two-state solution with Jerusalem serving as the capital to both Israel and a future Palestinian state. Abbas visit coincides with landmark Pence visit to Israel Mogherini hosted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last month on the sidelines of the bloc's monthly diplomatic briefing. She stressed that Brussels would continue working with the US and actors in the region to forge a framework agreement, but added that the EU was fully united in refusing to follow Trump's move on Jerusalem. Read more: Israeli UK Ambassador: 'All inhabitants of Israel have equality' Abbas' trip to Brussels comes at a sensitive time, coinciding with US Vice President Mike Pence visit to Israel, the first such trip by a senior Washington official to the region since Trump's Jerusalem announcement provoked violent Palestinian protests and sparked international outcry. Pence is scheduled to address the Israeli parliament, the first senior White House official to do so since President George W Bush in 2008. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r2i8