Spain's federal prosecutor's office on Sunday said former Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont should be arrested if he travels to Denmark for a scheduled university debate about the breakaway region and democracy in Europe. The prosecutor's office said it would have a Supreme Court judge "immediately" issue an arrest warrant for Puigdemont. Read more: Spain warns EU of Russian meddling in Catalan separatist movement In December, Spain's top court withdrew an extradition order for the former Catalan leader and four regional councilors, saying they had illustrated their "intention to return to Spain." Puigdemont and four former ministers that fled Catalonia to Belgium are wanted in Spain for rebellion and sedition for orchestrating an outlawed independence referendum in October last year. In the wake of the referendum, Madrid imposed direct rule on the region and dissolved Catalonia's parliament. 'Rather be a president' Earlier this week, the University of Copenhagen announced a debate entitled "Catalonia and Europe at a Crossroads for Democracy" for Monday. The university's spokesman said Puigdemont would attend "in person." While Puigdemont is free to move around the EU at the moment, that could change if Spanish judges reissue an international arrest warrant for the Catalan politician and his accompanying associates. Read more: Is Carles Puigdemont living in a parallel world? The former Calatan leader's party has said that it will try to have Puigdemont reinstated as the region's president and allow him to rule from exile. Madrid and experts on Catalan politics have warned that such an attempt lacks a legal route. However, Puigdemont told Catalan public radio that "new technologies" could be used that would allow him to rule from exile. "If I have to choose between being an inmate or a president, I'd rather be a president, even from agar," Puigdemont said. "At least now I can do things that I wouldn't be able to do in prison." Catalonia has been settled by the Phoenicians, the Etruscans and the Greeks, who were mainly in the coastal areas of Rosas and Empuries (above). Then came the Romans, who built more settlements and infrastructure. Catalonia remained a part of the Roman Empire until it was conquered by the Visigoths in the fifth century. Catalonia was conquered by Arabs in 711 AD. The Frankish king Charlemagne stopped their advance at Tours on the Loire River and, by 759, the north of Catalonia was once again Christian. In 1137, the counties that made up Catalonia entered an alliance with the Crown of Aragon. In the 13th century, the institutions of Catalan self-administration were created under the banner of the Generalitat de Catalunya. After the unification of the Crown of Aragon with that of Castile in 1476, Aragon was largely able to keep its autonomic institutions. However, the Catalan revolt — from 1640 to 1659 — saw parts of Catalonia ceded to present-day France. After the conquest of Barcelona on September 11, 1714, by the Bourbon King Phillip V, Catalan instuitutions were dissolved and self-administration came to an end. Every year, on September 11, Catalans commemorate the end of their right to autonomy. After the abdication of King Amadeo I of Spain, the first Spanish Republic was declared in February 1873. It lasted barely a year. The supporters of the Republic were split – one group supporting the idea of a centralized republic, the others wanting a federal system. Pictured here is Francisco Pi i Maragall, a supporter of federalism and one of five presidents of the short-lived republic. Catalonia sought to establish a new state within the Spanish republic, but this only served to exacerbate the differences between republicans, ultimately dividing and weakening them. In 1874, the monarchy and the House of Bourbon (led by King Alfonso XII, pictured here) took the helm. Between 1923 — with the support of the monarchy, the army and the church — General Primo de Rivera declared a dictatorship. Catalonia became a center of opposition and resistance. After the end of the dictatorship, the politician Francesc Macia (pictured here) successfully pressed for important rights of autonomy for Catalonia. In the Second Spanish Republic, Catalan lawmakers worked on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. This was approved by the Spanish parliament in 1932. Francesc Macia was elected president of the Generalitat of Catalonia by the Catalan parliament. However, the victory of Franco at the end of the Spanish Civil War (1936 to 1939) put an end to all that. The Franco regime ruled with an iron rod. Political parties were banned and the Catalan language and culture were surpressed. After the first parliamentary elections that followed the end of the Franco dictatorship, the Generalitat of Catalonia was provisionally restored. Under the democratic Spanish constitution of 1978, Catalonia was given a new Statute of Autonomy just a year later. The new Statute of Autonomy recognized the autonomy of Catalonia and the importance of the Catalan language. In comparison to the 1932 statute, it was enhanced in the fields of culture and education but curtailed when it came to the realm of justice. Pictured here is Jordi Pujol, the long-time head of the government of Catalonia after the dictatorship. A desire for independence has grown stronger in recent years. In 2006, Catalonia was given a new statute that broadened the Catalan government's powers. However, it lost these after a complaint by the conservative Popular Party to the Constitutional Court of Spain. A referendum on independence was already envisaged for November 9, 2014. The first question was "Do you want Catalonia to become a state?" In the case of an affirmative answer, the second question was posed: "Do you want this state to be independent?" However, the Constitutional Court suspended the vote. Since January 2016, Carles Puigdemont has been president of the Catalan government. He proceeded with the separatist course of his predecessor Artur Mas and called the new referendum for October 1, 2017. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy dismissed this as unconstitutional. Author: Richard Connor ls/ (AFP, EFE, AP)