Given the deep divisions among the SPD delegates over the prospect of joining another grand coalition, Martin Schulz's speech was less an appeal for action than a desperate cry for party unity. And it was received as such: tepid applause followed the party head's address. Then a radically anti-coalition speech was delivered by the head of the party's youth wing, Kevin Kühnert. But then Andrea Nahles stepped up to the lectern. 20 years ago, she led the SPD youth wing, the "Jusos," herself. But that didn't mean she went lightly on them today. Nahles, who heads the SPD parliamentary group, lambasted those who opposed coalition talks for seven whole minutes. In allusion to the Jusos' leader Kühnert, Nahles posed the rhetorical question what defines a big political achievement. She told of an encounter with an elderly lady at an airport, who had asked Nahles about the SPD position on pensions and then told her "I'm counting on you." Nahles and her delegation negotiated with Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party Christian Social Union (CSU) and managed to agree on higher pensions for people who spent many years working. Nahles' voice trembled as she recalled this, saying that basic pensions are a big political achievement. She explained that she'd joined the party because "I have always seen the significance in the little things." Read more: - Opinion: An unhappy ending is a bad beginning - Germany's coalition talks: What happens next? - Who is Andrea Nahles, the new SPD leader in parliament? Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rGNp Nahles fought for minimum wage "like crazy" In the last Merkel cabinet, Nahles served as the Minister for Labor and Social Affairs. During this time, she oversaw the implementation of one of the Social Democrats' biggest projects: the minimum wage. She worked "like crazy" to introduce the minimum wage, Nahles proudly shouted to the Bonn delegates. She said she would pursue similarity important issues in a prospective new government. Like a fairer health care system and refugee regime, and she would fight against fixed-term contracts. "We won't make progress on all issues with the conservatives," she admitted. But that's no wonder, she said, as the SPD is an independent party with a distinct agenda. She then continued to dissect the skeptics' arguments with visible passion, inadvertently shaking the microphones attached to her lectern. "We're not betraying the SPD by agreeing to govern with the others." The first democratic government to rule West Germany since the end of World War II saw Christian Democratic Union leader Konrad Adenauer form a governing coalition with the Free Democrats and the German Party (a now-defunct national conservative party). When Adenauer's conservatives won re-election four years later, he once again turned to the same coalition partners. After four years of ruling West Germany on their own between 1957 and 1961, the conservative Union lost their majority in the Bundestag and were forced to enter into coalition with the Free Democrats again. Adenauer resigned in 1963 for his part in the so-called "Spiegel" scandal. His Minister of Economic Affairs Ludwig Erhard (left) was elected by parliament to take over The first ever "grand coalition" was not the product of an election. Ludwig Erhart was re-elected in 1965 and continued to rule alongside the FDP. However, the following year the Free Democrats left the government over budget disputes. Erhart also resigned and Kurt Kiesinger (right) was chosen to take over. With the FDP out, he governed with the Social Democrats, led by Willy Brandt (left). Willy Brandt became Germany's first Social Democratic chancellor in the post-war period. Despite winning fewer votes than the CDU/CSU, Brandt struck a deal with the FDP to give them a narrow majority in the Bundestag. It wouldn't be the last time the liberals would be called out for a perceived lack of loyalty. In 1974, Brandt was replaced by Helmut Schimdt, who went on to win two more elections. The 13-year friendship between the SPD and FDP ended in 1980 as the two parties' differing ideologies became irreconcilable. The liberals again switched sides that year, dropping out of the coalition and seeking a deal with the conservatives. That caused the SPD-led government to collapse and a reborn CDU/CSU-FDP coalition formed under the leadership of Helmut Kohl (pictured). Shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall, East Germany held its first ever elections. The Christian Democrats under Lothar de Maiziere took over 40 percent of the vote. They went into coalition with two small parties: German Social Union and Democratic Awakening, whose members included one Angela Merkel. In October that year, the government signed the reunification treaty with West Germany. In 2002, Helmut Kohl's 16-year rule came to an end and the Social Democrats under Gerhard Schröder returned to power. The SPD formed a coalition with the Green party, who became a governing party less than 20 years after being founded. Unlike under Brandt, the SPD now led a left-wing government, rather than a center-left coalition. The SPD-Green party coalition remained in power until 2005. "Grand coalitions" do not come easily. When the first exit polls came in, both Schröder (right) and Angela Merkel (left) declared themselves the winner. In the end, Merkel's conservatives defeated the SPD by just 1 percent. Germany's two largest parties agreed to form the country's second-ever grand coalition. The "grand coalition" experiment ended in 2009, after the SPD picked up a disappointing 23 percent in the federal elections. The Free Democrats, by contrast, gained almost 5 percent to give them over 14 percent of the vote. Merkel and the FDP's Guido Westerwelle (left) formed a coalition with relative ease. It was, after all, Germany's 11th CDU/CSU-FDP government. After taking more than 40 percent of the vote, Merkel's conservatives probably weren't expecting to rule with the SPD. But with her old allies the FDP failing to meet the 5 percent threshold to enter the Bundestag, options were limited. Merkel called on the SPD to join her and "take on the responsibility to build a stable government." She'd be making the same speech again four years later. Author: David Martin Nahles picks apart critics' arguments Among other things, many in the youth wing are concerned the SPD will "disintegrate" after yet another grand coalition with the CDU and CSU. Kühnert's camp believes the party will find it easier to embark on a course of renewal in opposition. Nahles has heard this argument before. The SPD did lose voters after twice joining Merkel to form a coalition government. But, Nahles said, in the intermittent four years in opposition the SPD barely regained its strength, climbing "from 23 to just 25 percent." That period in opposition, she insisted, hardly constituted a phase "of major renewal". She also contextualized the decline of the SPD within the wider European political landscape, arguing that other parties had lost supports regardless of Merkel and the grand coalition. Her most powerful argument concerned fresh elections, which she identified as the only realistic alternative to forming a new grand coalition. "I don't fear fresh elections but I do fear citizens' questions." She said people would ask why her party hadn't gone ahead and pursued the policies advocated in its party program as part of a coalition government. If her party's explanation would be because it was unable to implement all policies, people would "call us insane." The former Juso leader and ex-idealist struck a decidedly pragmatic tone, pointing out that fresh elections weren't an alternative because her party would not win an absolute majority. And that a left-wing coalition uniting the SPD, the Left party and the Greens wasn't either, as surveys showed they together still lacked 10 percent of voter support to govern. So to her, going for fresh elections was simply "nonsense!" She concluded her speech by promising to be a tough negotiator in talks with the conservatives. Which resonated with the Bonn delegates who responded ecstatically. A reaction that neither SPD party leader Martin Schulz, nor any other party member manged to evoke. After the conference, delegates and political observers agreed that Nahles' speech struck the right tone at the right time, essentially saving the entire party leadership and Schulz in particular. 