FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe has resigned, US media reported Monday. McCabe has been a frequent target of criticism from President Donald Trump, who alleges bias against him and in favor of his 2016 Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. What are reports saying? DW Washington correspondent Michael Knigge said it was no surprise that Trump would have liked to get rid of McCabe given his closeness to former FBI chief James Comey. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cpRd Trump has often attacked McCabe: The president has repeatedly insinuated that the deputy director harbored a bias against him after it came to light that McCabe's wife received donations from a Clinton ally during a failed Senate run. Trump even reportedly asked for his removal. Earlier this month there were reports that Trump had asked McCabe who he voted for in the 2016 US presidential election. Trump denied the claims. Where other Republicans stand:  Republican lawmakers have criticized McCabe and the FBI for letting off Clinton despite her using a private email server while she served as US secretary of state. Some Republican-led congressional committees are looking into whether the FBI botched the Clinton investigation and showed bias in her favor. The Comey connection: McCabe led the bureau for months last year following the ouster of its previous chief, James Comey, who was heading the agency's probe into potential collusion between Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and Russia. At a congressional hearing two days after Comey's firing, McCabe rejected White House assertions that Comey had lost the support of the FBI workforce. Could the resignation affect the Russia investigation? It's not yet clear. The Russia probe headed by special counsel Robert Mueller is independent and is not tied to the FBI. And what's the memo? Officially, only House Intelligence Committee members know — FBI officials haven't even been able to read it in full. It's an apparently explosive four-page document cobbled together by the body's chairman, the California Republican representative Devin Nunes, and charges that the Justice Department under President Obama was biased against candidate Trump. On Monday, the committee voted along party lines to allow the memo's release June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians." An FBI agent told a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, said there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announced it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers. Senator Jeff Sessions - an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee - met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event. Julian Assange's WikiLeaks published 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders. The FBI announced it was investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected president of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov said there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issued a firm denial. Trump named General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Acting attorney general Sally Yates told White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fired Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts. Trump said he had "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI Director James Comey confirmed before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign. In a letter announcing the termination, Trump wrote: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau." Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Shortly after Mueller convenes a grand jury for the investigation, the FBI seizes documents from one of Paul Manafort’s properties as part of a raid for Mueller’s probe. The former Trump campaigner manager stepped down in August 2016 after allegations surfaced that he had received large payments linked to Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government. Donald Trump Jr. tells the Senate Judiciary Committee he has not colluded with a foreign government. The closed-door interview relates to his June 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, which was also attended by his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and then campaign manager Paul Manafort. Trump Jr.’s emails, however, suggest the meeting was supposed to produce dirt on Clinton. Facebook, Twitter and Google reportedly tell US media they have evidence that Russian operatives exploited platforms to spread disinformation during the 2016 US presidential election. The three companies are expected to appear before a Senate Intelligence Committee in November. Author: Jo Harper, Kathleen Schuster ap/aw (Reuters, AP)