A cheap purchase at an Australian thrift store revealed priceless treasures and sparked a media frenzy on Wednesday. Two locked cabinets containing "top secret" and classified documents from the Australian government were found in a Canberra secondhand store that sold ex-government furniture. The identity of the buyer of the old cabinets has not been revealed. It was also unclear when the discovery was made. The buyer removed the locks with a drill and found thousands of documents belonging to Australia's Cabinet, many of which were designated "top secret," "sensitive," "Australian eyes only," and "cabinet-in-confidence." The files spanned more than a decade and covered four different administrations. The most recent government covered by the documents was that of former Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who was replaced in 2015 by Malcolm Turnbull. Prime Minister Turnbull pledged to launch an "urgent investigation" into how the furniture containing the sensitive files was lost. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1JMXx Domestic and national security information Most of the files covered domestic politics, including information on Cabinet policy debates within previous Labour and Liberal-National coalition governments under former leaders Kevin Rudd, Tony Abbott and John Howard. The old cabinets contained two reports on other instances of misplaced files. One revealed that the Australian Federal Police lost nearly 400 national security documents between 2008 and 2013. In another report, some 195 top secret documents were "left behind" at a senior minister's office. The trove also revealed that former Immigration Minister Scott Morrison, who now serves as treasurer, sought to slow down the issuing of visas by asking security authorities to delay security checks on asylum seekers in 2013. Read More: Australia PM rejects Amnesty International's asylum-seeker 'torture' claims Documents were found detailing Australia's intelligence priorities and counterterrorism planning. They included information on missile upgrades and profiles of suspected militants. However, the ABC chose not to report on files that contained sensitive information on national security. Some documents also featured defense plans in the Middle East, Afghanistan conflict updates and intelligence on Australia's neighbors, the ABC reported. Australian Cabinet documents like the ones found at the secondhand store are usually not released to the public until 20 years after their date. Nuon Solar Team vehicle "Nuna9" from the Netherlands leaves the start line as the 2017 Bridgestone World Solar Challenge begins on October 8. Teams from across the globe are competing in the 3,000 kilometer race through the Australian Outback between Darwin and Adelaide. The Dutch are the reigning champions. Japanese Kogakuin University's solar vehicle "Wing" speeds down the road in Katherine on the first day of the race. The race is expected to take about a week for most cars. The vehicles are powered solely by the sun and travel at a speed of 90 to 100 km per hour. Japan's Tokai University achieved the fastest time in 2009, completing the transcontinental race in only 29 hours and 49 minutes. South Africa is being represented by a solar car named SAV. Here, it can be seen dashing from the starting line in Darwin. Teams from the United States, Japan, Germany, Chile, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Malaysia, Belgium, Sweden, Iran, South Korea, India, Hong Kong, Poland, Thailand, Turkey, Canada, Taiwan and Australia are participating in the event, among others. The Punch Powertrain Solar Team car from Belgium moved into first place on Sunday after hitting an average speed of 83.4 km per hour over a distance of 2.97 km. This year's biennial event has attracted one of the best fields ever, with teams from more than 20 countries. The Mississippi Choctaw High School of the US is competing with this vehicle. Here, it can be seen speeding the track on the opening day of the 2017 World Solar Challenge. A total of 42 solar cars from 21 different countries started the race from Darwin to Adelaide. Taiwan's National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences and St. John's University's solar car "Apollo VIII" leaves the start line. The race attracts teams from around the world, most of which are fielded by universities or corporations; although some are fielded by high schools. The World Solar Challenge started in 1987, and the last race was held in 2015. Author: Aasim Saleem jcg/kms (AP, AFP, dpa)