In a letter addressed to the African Union, Trump expressed his "deepest compliments" to all the leaders gathered for 55th AU summit in Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa. Trump's letter, which has not been made public, was confirmed by two US officials, including Chris Meade top US diplomat to the AU delegation.  In the letter, Trump acknowledged that US troops are fighting terrorism "side by side" with their African counterparts. He also said the US is seeking to increase "free, fair and reciprocal trade" with Africa. The US State Department has sought to calm the fury of African leaders after Trump infamously compared African countries to a s***hole during a bipartisan congressional meeting on US immigration reforms. Read more: Donald Trump denies slur against migrants from 's***hole' countries He, however, took to Twitter and denied using the slur saying he had used "tough language" to describe migrants from Haiti, El Salvador and Africa, but nothing like what had been reported. His controversial remark sharply divided opinions in Africa, with many leaders demanding an apology from Trump. However, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni this week said he likes President Trump and that the US President deserves praise for openly speaking his mind. Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni says he admires Trump's sincerity Read more: Africa divided over US President Donald Trump's first year in office Reacting on DW's Africa Facebook page to Trump's latest attempt to contain the diplomatic spat, Ladu Samson from South Sudan said: "Trump respects Africa and that is why he is always frank. The derogatory statement is a wake up call!" Nigerian Nnamdi Anene said he believes the US respects Africa but Trump doesn't. Rex Tillerson to visit Africa According to Trump's letter to the AU, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is set to visit four to six African countries in March. This will be Tillerson's first visit to the continent as America's top envoy. Observers are keen to see how he will handle the concerns in most parts of Africa over Trump's plan to deeply cut US foreign aid and reduce its contribution to UN peacekeeping missions in countries such as MONUSCO in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues. UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon. Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon. UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain. The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General. The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis. The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic. The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home. UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski In a rare meeting on Friday, Trump called Rwandan President Paul Kagame, who is also the African Union chairperson, "a friend" at the just concluded World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Kagame on his part tweeted:  cm (AFP, AP, dpa) 