The Earth's oceans hide vast amounts of valuable minerals and metals, and as some onshore deposits run low, mining companies are looking for ways to make deep sea mining both technologically possible and profitable. This is partly driven by the need for so-called rare earth metals to produce the magnets, batteries and microchips driving our gadgets, electric cars and wind turbines. "New technologies have initiated the new gold rush," says Andrea Koschinsky, a professor of geoscience at Jacobs University in the northern German city of Bremen. "Many of the new technologies — for example magnets of the wind turbines — need tons and tons and tons of rare earth elements." Read more: 5 biggest threats to our oceans - and what we can do about them Some deep sea mining machines have already been built, and many countries have bought permits for deep sea mineral prospecting in a massive 1.2 million-square-kilometer (463,322-square-mile) area of the eastern Pacific Ocean. Professor Andrea Koschinsky on board the RV Sonne during a research trip to the South West Pacific Environmental risks in a new frontier Although no activity has started yet, environmentalists are alarmed about the potential impact on ecosystems. Koschinsky and her team are studying the impact of machinery several kilometers down on the sea floor, where life has existed for possibly billions of years and never before been disturbed by man. When she is not in her office, you might find her on a scientific vessel, overseeing submarines and robots exploring the dark depths of our oceans. This is the new frontier for mining companies looking for metals which could soon be in short supply onshore. Read more: Our oceans need a government, too Harvesting 'potatoes' Until now, deep sea mining has been hampered by high costs and technological challenges. The most feasible method would be to harvest so-called nodules — potato-shaped rocks made of manganese oxide — from the flat sea floor some 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) down. This nodule field in the northwest Pacific has plenty of potato-shaped rocks made of manganese oxide These could simply be picked up by specialized machinery, before being brought to the surface to be processed."It is still associated with high cost in the beginning, but once these investments have been made — and some prototypes of well-functioning machines exist — I think it should be possible from both technological and financial sides," Koschinsky says. Read more: Tackling marine pollution on land Help from Wally the robot Laurenz Thomsen is also a professor of geoscience at Jacobs University, working alongside Koschinsky. Using a range of heavy robots, he studies the impact their caterpillar tracks have on the soft seafloor sediment. This is mimicking what heavy mining machinery would do when scurrying back and forth to collect the metal-rich nodules found there. They call one machine Wally — "because it looks a bit like the robot in the Disney animation film WALL-E," he explains, as he shows a yellow deep-sea robot equipped with a webcam and measurement systems, for everything from temperature and pressure to methane concentration and turbidity. Read more: Ocean College: Water is precious when you're at sea Meet Wally, one of the robots helping scientists map the impact of machines on the ocean floor His team has been studying what they call "the snow" — tiny particles that are whirled up when the seabed is disrupted. "I'm responsible for analyzing particle behavior — how the 'snow' forms," Thomson says. He's also looking at how this affects the animals on the seafloor. "They are very fragile animals. They actively catch particles, and you can only find these types of animals in the deep sea when there's enough organic matter settling down." Hydro-thermal vents Laurenz Thomsen studies life at the bottom of the sea Manganese oxide nodules do not represent the only mining opportunity out there. So-called hydro-thermal vents, deep sea chimney-like structures spewing out minerals straight from the Earth's core, have also caught future prospectors' eyes. Because of the warmer waters forming around these structures, they can be home to complex ecosystems. Yet Koschinsky is less worried about the possible impact on these areas from mining operations. "These organisms are adapted to relatively quick and drastic changes," she says. "They live in a toxic environment anyway," she explains. Such systems are frequently hit by volcanic eruptions, and then a new vent system comes up. "So they can probably recover relatively quickly." Better prepared than ever Environmental organizations are warning against a rush to explore resources hidden under the seabed, instead urging world leaders to create vast ocean sanctuaries to protect life in our oceans from further disruption. A new study of current mining proposals around the world, published in the journal Frontiers in Marine Science, warns of "long-lasting and possibly unforeseen consequences." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jCNM In the paper, researchers at the University of Exeter and Greenpeace highlight that there are still many "questions and uncertainties" surrounding the deep-sea mining, including legal issues and problems associated with predicting, then later tracking, the scale of any effects. Yet some scientists point out that this time, at least, we are better prepared to avoid negative environmental impacts — unlike damage that has resulted from the exploits of petroleum companies, large-scale fisheries and onshore mining programs. "Maybe for the first time in humankind's history, we think about the potential environmental damage before somebody starts getting resources out of the ground," says Jens Greinert, head of the deep sea monitoring research unit at the GEOMAR Helmholtz Center for Ocean Research in Kiel, Germany. "On land nobody asked, with oil and gas nobody asked before," he adds. "All the regulation was established after the damage was made. Now we're doing it jointly together before something happens." The world's first major deep sea mining program is set to begin in 2019, in the deep waters off Papua New Guinea. There, a new deep sea mining company plans to start looking for copper, zinc, gold and silver. Environmentalists and the mining industry will be monitoring their success, or lack of it, very closely. With such a culinary name and its astonishing appearance, sea lovers probably do not need any further argument to be amazed. To top it off, it seems that this jellyfish's sting has very little or no effect on humans. In contrast to most jellyfish, this one can move on its own, and, surprisingly, it is one of the most common jellyfish in the Mediterranean Sea. When you feel something unfamiliar touching your toes, it might be comforting to think it's just plants - but that's not always the case. One of the plant-like creatures living on the bottom of the sea is this yellow cluster anemone, whose polyps can have up to 36 tentacles each. In the Mediterranean, this species often appears in dense agglomerations close to sponges, tunicates and algae. Although it's very attractive for divers, this marine worm of about 15 centimeters - which can reach up to 35 centimeters - does not like to be disturbed. If so, its bristles can penetrate flesh and produce an intense irritation to the skin. Its vivid combination of colors is a warning for those in the know, but in case the message is still unclear, its name spells it out: bearded fireworm. The 'wings' of the flying gurnard are, in reality, very large pectoral fins, which enable the fish to glide above the water for short distances. Disappointingly, the flying gurnard does not fly as such; it is mainly a bottom-dwelling fish and only extend its fins when troubled or in need of scaring predators. This produces a beautiful spectacle of bright and fluorescent colors. This three-centimeter flatworm is one of the enigmatic wonders that nature has to offer us. Its oval, flat body has a blue tone, a yellow central longitudinal band and dozens of white stripes - it can also appear in pink. Two tentacles on its head are reminiscent of a small mammal's ears or to a snail's horns. Its diet, sexuality and regeneration methods are also part of its unusual features. Some of the creatures living here are far more famous - but no less outstanding. The loggerhead is the most common sea turtle in the Mediterranean - but tourism and getting caught in fishing nets mean it's endangered. Their large heads, which support powerful jaws and enable them to feed on hard-shelled prey, justify their name. But in some languages they are known as the 'foolish turtles'. Even with newly purchased professional goggles, it would be hard to notice this fish. But it is somewhere there, just under our feet. The turbot is a flat fish with both eyes on the left side of its - surely flat - head. It likes blending in with the sand and mud on the sea bed, but despite its camouflage, it is sought by fishermen around the world, as it is considered a highly-prized species. There are not many natural dangers in the coastal areas of the Mediterranean Sea, and that might be the reason why jellyfish create such a panic. But despite the bad rap these annoying bathing companions receive , they are actually remarkable animals. As an example, the compass jellyfish has 24 impressive tentacles and, upon maturity, it changes sexual functions from male to female. The spiny starfish can reach an impressive diameter of 70 centimeters, even though the central disk is relatively small. Each of its five arms has three longitudinal rows of purple spines, each surrounded by a white cushion. Despite being native to the eastern Atlantic Ocean, its habitat range extends from Iceland to the Mediterranean Sea and the Azores. Not everything is peace and love under the Mediterranean Sea. The small red scorpion fish is a very venemous species due to its sharp spines coated with mucus. It is mainly found in rocky littoral habitats, even though sometimes it can be found up to 700 meters under the sea. It is carnivorous and feeds on small fish and crustaceans - of course, one would expect no less from a scorpion fish! Author: Irene Banos Ruiz