Israel and Poland have agreed to "open a dialogue" to resolve a diplomatic row over the proposed Polish law, the office of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said. The legislation, which passed Poland's lower house on Friday, bans the use of the term "Polish death camp" to refer to concentration camps built by the Nazis on Polish soil. It also places fines or a maximum three-year jail term on certain mentions of Polish complicity in the Holocaust. Israel summoned Poland's deputy ambassador to express its outrage. Netanyahu said that his country could not tolerate a bill that distances Warsaw from responsibility for the Holocaust, while Polish officials argued the measure had been misinterpreted. The Israeli leader spoke by phone late Sunday with his Polish counterpart, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. "The two agreed that teams from the two countries would open an immediate dialogue in order to try to reach understandings regarding the legislation," Netanyahu's office said in a statement. Earlier, Netanyahu told a cabinet meeting that Israel has "no tolerance for the distortion of the truth, the rewriting of history and the denial of the Holocaust." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2reUz 'Poles being blamed for German crimes' "We have had enough of Poland and Poles being blamed for German crimes," said Beata Mazurek of the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party, defending the bill, which still has to pass the Senate and be signed by the president before it becomes law. The bill hits at Poland's fight for its own legacy. The narrative put forward by Poland's nationalist conservative government posits that Poland was only a victim of Nazi terrorism and acted heroically under horrible circumstances. However, most historians agree that the truth is more complicated, and many Poles collaborated with the occupying forces and committed terrible crimes. Israel has criticized the bill for its potential to "harm freedom of research, as well as prevent discussion of the historical message and legacy of World War II," and taken issue with the timing, coming the day before International Holocaust Remembrance Day. The World Jewish Congress on Sunday added its voice to opposition to the plan, saying the draft law's implementation would be a "serious mistake." [It is] "objectionable as it stifles any real confrontation with the most chilling aspect of the country's wartime history — the extent to which local Poles were complicit in the destruction of their Jewish neighbors," chief executive Robert Singer said. Israel's ambassador to Poland, Anna Azari, told the Polish PAP news agency that the draft law could lead to Holocaust survivors being prosecuted for their testimony should it mention the involvement of Poles in war crimes. Warsaw reacts Poland's Foreign Minister Jacek Czaputowicz on Sunday defended the legislation. "I think that crimes in the world are being attributed to Poles that weren't committed by Poles," Czaputowicz told state-run broadcaster TVP Info. "Some formulations could be misunderstood," he said. On Saturday, Prime Minister Morawiecki wrote on Twitter: "Auschwitz is the most bitter lesson on how evil ideologies can lead to hell on earth. Jews, Poles, and all victims should be guardians of the memory of all who were murdered by German Nazis. Auschwitz-Birkenau is not a Polish name, and Arbeit Macht Frei is not a Polish phrase." In another tweet, Morawiecki used the following analogy: "A gang of professional thugs enters a two-family house. They kill the first family almost entirely. They kill the parents of the second, torturing the kids. They loot and raze the house. Could one, in good conscience, say that the second family is guilty for the murder of the first?" Poland's Deputy Ambassador to Israel Piotr Kozlowski rejected the idea that his government was trying to "whitewash" history. "It is to safeguard it, to safeguard the truth about the Holocaust and to prevent its distortion," he said after his meeting at the Israeli Foreign Ministry. Polish President Andrzej Duda said he would send a top policy advisor to meet with Israeli diplomats on Monday and discuss the bill's wording. The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon nm,jbh/aw (AP, AFP, Reuters)