US Vice President Pence has embarked on a short visit to the Middle East for a trip that had been postponed already twice since December,  After talks in Egypt and Jordan, he is to arrive in Israel on Sunday evening. While he’s expected to be warmly welcomed by Israeli leaders, he won’t meet any Palestinian officials during his trip. After the US decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, many Palestinians will be closely following the vice president's  words and actions, but don’t hold their breath with regards to the visit."They have killed any hope among Palestinians," Jawad Siyam, a Palestinian activist, told DW after the Trump decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. "The visit certainly has the potential to add to simmering tensions in the city.” His visit comes at a time when US-Palestinian diplomatic relations have hit a new low. In December, in protest of President Donald Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, Palestinian President Abbas called off a planned meeting with Pence in Bethlehem. The decision this week by the  US to withhold funds for the UN refugee agency UNRWA, which supports Palestinian refugees, has further strained relations. In a speech last week, Abbas made it clear once again that the US will no longer be accepted by the Palestinians as broker in any peace initiative. The US decision to cut funds to the UN refugee agency for Palestinian refugees looms over the visit by Mike Pence Strained US-Palestinian relations During his visit, Pence will address the Knesset in what is seen as an important gesture. George W. Bush was the last US president to address the Israeli parliament. "Clinton spoke to the Knesset, Bush spoke to the Knesset to mark the 60th anniversary of the founding of Israel — a speech at the Knesset is an exceptional event," Eytan Gilboa, an Israeli expert on American-Israeli relations from Bar Ilan University, told DW. But the planned address also draws criticism among Israeli- Arab lawmakers who will boycott the speech over the US policies. "This is a dangerous man with a messianic vision that involves the destruction of an entire nation," Ayman Odeh, head of the Joint Arab List coalition, wrote on Twitter. Pence, often described as a devout evangelical Christian, will also address his own support base back home in the US. "The evangelicals are one of the greatest supporters of Israel, maybe more than the Jewish community at the moment. In that sense, this is the hard core base of the Trump administration," says Gilboa. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r7bi Evangelical approach to the Middle East Originally, his visit was framed as a show of support for Christian minorities in the region. However, he most likely won't meet with any Christians in the Holy Land. A previously discussed visit to the Church of the Nativity, one of Christianity's holiest sites, and located in the occupied West Bank, does not appear on the vice-president's schedule. The churches have been highly critical of Trump's US decision on Jerusalem and have called for the status quo to be maintained. "Many people here think that the pressure of the evangelical groups in the United States to which Pence belongs or is close to was behind the Jerusalem," Bishop Munib Younan, former head of the protestant Lutheran Church in Jordan and the Holy Land, told DW. "Their apocalyptic scenarios and understanding of Jerusalem are very harmful for the cause of peace and justice in Jerusalem." Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital hasn't made Pence's visit any easier Evangelical Christians are part of the Christian-Zionist camp which supports the State of Israel. Some of them believe in an-end-of- time scenario that will eventually occur in Jerusalem. "They are a voting block, so it represents a domestic issue," Oscar Cantú, a US Catholic bishop, told DW on a recent trip to Jerusalem. "The United States has been for many years a key interlocutor to bring the two parties together for dialogue. Now the Palestinians are very distrustful and feel we have taken sides." The Western Wall However, it is Pence's expected visit to the Western Wall, the holiest site in Judaism, that might create the most tensions. Trump had visited the holy site during his trip in May. At the time, his visit was declared as 'private' in order to avoid any controversy concerning Jerusalem's delicate status quo. But since his decision to recognize the city as Israel's capital, whatever Pence says and does would be perceived by Palestinians in a very different light. The Palestinians have cancelled any official meetings with the US vice president The editors of the 0202 website, a grass-roots project based in Jerusalem, will also be following events closely. Named after the telephone area code of 02 for Jerusalem, the website aims to highlight the different realities in both parts of Jerusalem. A small group of Palestinian and Israeli volunteers translate news from their respective communities in Hebrew, Arabic and English. "The idea is basically to allow people to look at a Facebook feed from someone who is not like them," Shira, a young editor, told DW. Although 0202 discusses a variety of everyday issues such as a lack of garbage collection in East-Jerusalem or Jerusalem's public transport problems, political issues obviously play a role and have become more contentious ever since Trump's decision on Jerusalem as Israel's capital, ignoring the reality that East Jerusalem remains occupied and is practically inhabited by Palestinians. "It's very disappointing, Jerusalem means so much in Arab culture, for Palestinians, Muslims and Christians alike," says Nadia, a Palestinian volunteer translator. "To have made such a one-sided statement, just erases everything that is Arabic about it [Jerusalem]." Shira also has mixed feelings. "Personally speaking, I wish he [Trump] could have gone a step further and recognize everyone's footprint and history here." According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, conquered Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. Since the year 63 CE, Jerusalem was under Roman rule. Resistance movements rapidly formed amongst the population, so that in 66 CE, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and a renewed destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately six hundred years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 CE. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 CE onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II finally called for the crusade. A total of five Crusades set out to conquer Jerusalem within 200 years. In 1244, however, the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again fell under Muslim rule. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the administrative seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele