After exhausting all-night talks into January 12, Germany's two biggest political parties  — the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the Social Democratic Party (SPD) — announced that they had made a breakthrough in exploratory talks in the form of a 28-page paper containing a list of agreed policies. The new agreement represented an important stage victory for Chancellor Angela Merkel, who would certainly prefer a "grand coalition" to the other two options currently on the table: heading an unstable minority government, or a new election. SPD leader Martin Schulz, who after his party's loss in September elections initially said he would go into opposition rather than join a new iteration of a Merkel-led coalition, faced dissent from within the ranks, particularly from the left-wing. SPD leftists had made a series of demands that do not appear to have been met in the paper: raising the top income tax rate, family reunification for refugees and a new concept for health insurance. Particularly the youth wing of the party, the "Young Socialists" or "Jusos," have voiced vehement opposition to the notion of a new "grand coalition," fearing that their party could completely lose its individual profile and ability to govern alone. However, the "yes" vote on Sunday means that Schulz will push on with talks to form a grand coalition. The blueprint So what was agreed? Family reunification: The current government (also a CDU/SPD "grand coalition") had suspended the right of refugees with a "limited protection status" to bring their families over. The new coalition paper says this will be limited to 1,000 people per month — a limitation that is unlikely to sit well with the SPD base. On top of that, the number of asylum seekers taken in altogether is to be capped at between 180,000 and 220,000 per year. The plan to reunite families of refugees has been one of the most contentious coalition issues - Top tax rate: The CDU and SPD are not planning any more tax hikes. The SPD had been pushing for an increase from 42 percent to 45 percent. - Solidarity tax: The special tax instituted after the reunification of Germany in 1990 to help support the former East of the country will be gradually reduced. This is a compromise in a debate that has been running in Germany for several years. - Health insurance: Here too, the SPD failed in its bid to establish a "citizens' insurance" that would guarantee basic health care standards for both state and private patients. Instead, the two sides pledged to restore parity between the contributions from employers and employees. - Housing: The two sides have agreed to a new construction target of 1.5 million new apartments in Germany by 2022 — an ambitious goal, given that the current rate is only around 280,000 a year. Arms deals with Saudi Arabia: The negotiation paper also included a phrase that might be seen as a breakthrough for Germany's anti-arms trade activists — "The government will with immediate effect not approve any exports to countries as long as they are involved in the Yemen war." - Glyphosate: A small but significant gain for the SPD here. The two parties agreed to ban the use of the controversial pesticide, which is thought to be responsible for killing huge insect populations across Europe in the past few years. While the CSU Agriculture Minister Christian Schmidt was against such a ban, the SPD Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks wanted Germany to vote in favor at a recent European summit.