German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday discussed the prospect of eurozone reforms aimed at strengthening the single currency bloc and deepening cooperation. "Our ambitions cannot be realized alone. I have said it already several times, they need to be accompanied by Germany's ambitions," said Macron, who assumed office last year after running on a vehemently pro-European campaign. Read more: Is Emmanuel Macron Europe's new Angela Merkel? Both leaders were quick to note that while Friday's talks would not include technical discussions, they said the priority was to agree on what they expect from the reforms. One of the proposals put forth by Macron is the creation of a single finance minister post that would be in charge of coordinating and executing eurozone policy. Another is to transform the eurozone's 500-billion-euro rescue fund into a European monetary fund aimed at stabilizing member states experiencing economic hardships. "We still have to define the details," Macron said. "That will be the subject of our discussions today and in the weeks and months to come, to define a path that will take us in that direction." With Germany's support, it would be practically impossible for Macron to implement his EU and eurozone reforms Macron wades into German politics The French president also urged Germany's Social Democrats (SPD) to form a stable government with Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU). Merkel has struggled to put together a government since her conservatives fell short of an overall majority to rule in last year's general elections. "I have noted that the SPD had shown a great ambition for Europe, too, and that the preliminary agreement text which will be submitted to a vote on Sunday bears a genuine European tradition." Read more: Emmanuel Macron's EU vision meets Angela Merkel's realities Merkel also struck a confident note that the SPD would back forming a "grand coalition" with her conservatives, saying that Europe needed political stability in the EU's largest economy. "Germany and France can and should take the lead on many questions (related to Europe) and therefore I understand that France is waiting that we have a new government," Merkel said. Longtime Chancellor Helmut Kohl gave Merkel her first cabinet post and facilitated her rise. After losing the chancellorship in 1998, his onetime acolyte turned her back and that of their Christian Democratic Union (CDU) on him. Merkel, then CDU secretary general, said Kohl, who had accepted a cash donation from sources he refused to reveal, had hurt the party. The CDU moved on without him. Merkel was Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's undoing in the 2005 election, though his own vanity was also to blame. His Social Democrats (SPD) finished one point behind her conservative CDU/CSU alliance. On TV with Merkel and other party heads, Schröder insisted Germans had made clear they wanted him to stay. The others rebuffed his apparently absurd claim. She became chancellor. He quit politics. Frank-Walter Steinmeier had been Germany's foreign minister, serving under Merkel, for nearly four years when the Social Democrat challenged her in the 2009 election. Many people said the SPD's heavy defeat was because of his lack of a popular touch. But he bounced back and in 2013 returned as the country's top diplomat, again with Merkel as the boss. He became Germany's president in March 2017. Eliminating competitors doesn't always mean forcing them off the political scene. Merkel dispatched her party colleague and potential rival Günther Oettinger, premier of the state of Baden-Württemberg, to a top job in the European Commission in 2010. Oettinger had no track record in EU politics and even then was known for sticking his foot in his mouth. He is on his third position as commissioner. Roland Koch was known in some parts for his friendship with the Dalai Lama, in others for collecting millions of signatures to catapult the government's plans for dual citizenship. The state premier of Hesse was part of a clique of CDU men who never anticipated Merkel's rise, and then were sure they'd outlast her. Koch waited in vain to be offered a job in Berlin. In the end, she outlasted him. Christian Wulff wasn't Merkel's first pick for president, but left in a pinch when Horst Köhler resigned in 2010, party leaders wouldn't to agree to Ursula von der Leyen, now defense minister. The choice of Wulff, the CDU state premier of Lower Saxony who had been rumored to be unhappy in his position, came as a surprise to him, too. He resigned over corruption charges and was later acquitted. Merkel had reached the peak of her career by the time the SPD decided Peer Steinbrück should run against her in the 2013 election. She was unchallenged in her party and had come to dominate managing the euro and debt crisis in Brussels. Steinbrück, a finance minister under Merkel and ex-state premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, had the expertise to be chancellor, but he had little chance. Author: Nancy Isenson ls/kms (Reuters, AFP, dpa)