The Detroit Motor Show has been criticized in the headlines for not moving with the times and focusing too much on horsepower. Admittedly, that was also my first reaction to what I'd seen at the show: a whole lot of cars, yes, but nothing more. I thought the show was for the kind of people who have nothing better to do on a Saturday morning than strolling through a showroom of a local car dealer — boring! The Detroit Motor Show is no Cirque de Soleil and not even an innovative fair like the CES in Las Vegas. What's on display in Detroit is not the future: it's the present. And right now, customers in the US want SUVs and pickups, hence they're getting SUVs and pickups. Read also: Detroit slowly climbs back up on its feet Impact of global e-mobility drive Mind you, there are actually a few signs here and there that Detroit is looking to the future. Each carmaker attending boasts at least one electric or hybrid model. Mercedes has said it wants to electrify its complete fleet over the next couple of years. BMW already claims to be an e-mobility leader in the luxury cars segment. They all expect e-cars to boost their market share to up to 15 percent within a decade, up from just 1 percent right now, and they're getting into gear to be part of this development. There's also a lot of talk here about connectivity and autonomous driving, the new buzzwords among tech and computer freaks, but that's rather a side-show, not the main focus. There have also been reports about German and other auto manufacturers not having sent their top executives to Detroit, perhaps with the exception of Daimler, whose CEO Dieter Zetsche made a point of presenting the new Mercedes G-class personally. What's worse, some innovative market players such as Tesla are not represented at the show at all. Others, such as Waymo (Googlecars) are attending, but are keeping a low profile. DW's US correspondent Carsten von Nahmen Those present do what they think is best for them. BMW for instance, which US President Donald Trump sees as an enemy of the domestic auto industry, doesn't tire of emphasizing its deep roots in the US, its multi-billion-dollar investments here and its contribution to safe jobs in the country. "We call the United States our second home," CFO Nicolas Peter has repeatedly told reporters. VW, under special scrutiny after its emissions-cheating scandal, is playing the role of a reformed sinner, back on the path of success. Read also: In Detroit, VW reports record sales Alfa Romeo is running a truly Italian advertising campaign at the show, not stopping short of using lasciviously dressed hostesses to tout its cars in the times of #MeToo. Business as usual — big business! All in all, there seems little to get really excited about. But what if the problem is rather us journalists? Always on the lookout for something truly new, and with numerous auto shows to cover behind us, we tend to get increasingly harder to please. The car industry itself is taking a more pragmatic stance, viewing Detroit as a welcome venue to tout new models in a country still representing one of the most important car markets in the world. Like it or not, Detroit is providing carmakers around the world with an opportunity to spread their core corporate messages. It's a motor show not to everyone's liking. But it's important for the industry, and it will remain important despite some bored reporters claiming it's out of fashion. ... at least in Detroit. Americans always seem to have to transport something that doesn't quite fit in the trunk, right? This picture shows GM's new Chevrolet Silverado. Made of high-strength steel, it weighs less than the previous model. Fiat-Chrysler (FCA) has something big to offer as well. Have a look at its RAM 1500. This four-wheel drive monster boasts up to 400 PS, depending on its engine type. Production of the vehicle will shortly move from Mexico to Michigan — much to the liking of US President Donald Trump. Here comes another pickup — Ford's F-150 in a diesel-engine variety. While Ford are among those automakers still invested in the Detroit show, the Ford Mobility Platform for robo-taxis was presented at the CES in Las Vegas this week. With its X-class series, Mercedes-Benz also has a range of pickups. And it has modernized its cross-country G-class. The off-road beast looks as bulky as before, but its high-tech interior will help the occupants stay connected, even inside a deep forest. With its G-class, Mercedes certainly has rivals such as Jeep in mind. The picture shows the new Cherokee from Fiat-Chrysler, which owns Jeep. The designers have given it a thorough facelift. BMW's i8 Coupe and Roadster side by side. Both feature a modern design and drive experience. An electric engine contributes 143 PS to the cars' 374-PS total. It's not easy to buy a Volkswagen Jetta in Germany as VW produces the model almost exclusively for the US market. In Detroit, VW will present the Jetta's seventh edition in a low-PS version. By contrast, the Corvette ZR1 from Chevrolet boasts 750 PS. The GM subsidiary will most likely present its G8 at the Detroit show. There are rumors that an 8-cylinder car with 860 PS under the hood could be revealed. Infinity, Nissan's luxury brand, is to showcase the Q Inspiration Concept in Detroit to show the company's future design philosophy. In the places where you might expect to find side-view mirrors, there are mounts for cameras. Officially known as the North American International Auto Show (NAIAS), the Detroit gala opens to the media on January 15. It will open to the general public on January 19 and continues until January 28. Last year, the show attracted 800,000 visitors. For more, go to www.naias.com Author: Henrik Böhme (hg)