The US's top negotiator in Ukraine suggested Wednesday the four-year-old conflict in the country's eastern regions no longer makes headlines because many European countries would like to improve their relationship with Russia. "Honestly, I think a lot of European governments don't want this to be a permanent obstacle to dealing with Russia," Ambassador Kurt Volker told DW in response to a question about why the conflict had been "forgotten." Read more: Ukraine leader urges EU to uphold Russia sanctions "They're unhappy with Russia's actions, they're not happy with the invasion, they put in place sanctions but they don't want that to be permanent. And so they would like to see this to go away." The US Special Representative for Ukraine has been working with his European counterparts to resolve the struggle between Ukraine's pro-European central government and Russian-backed separatist forces since his appointment in July. Kurt Volker gave an exclusive interview with DW's Zhanna Nemtsova Sanctions frustrations Volker, a former US ambassador to NATO, said that European governments would ideally like to drop stringent economic sanctions against Moscow and senior Russian officials. "The problem is that Russia is persisting and it's not going away," Volker said. The EU and US have passed multiple sanctions in response to Moscow's support for rebel forces in Ukraine's Donetsk and Luhansk regions since 2014. Read more: US Special Rep to Ukrainian negotiations Kurt Volker: 'The status quo is not good for anybody' Russia's intervention in those regions, which followed its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea peninsula, erupted after pro-Kremlin Ukrainian President Viktor Viktor Yanukovych fled the country in late 2013 in response to massive pro-European protests in the capital. But some EU member states have come under pressure to soften sanctions against Moscow amid complaints from European businesses with strong ties to Russia. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel sharply criticized US proposals to expand sanctions in 2017 that would have harmed multiple European energy firms. Read more: US bill on Russia sanctions prompts German, Austrian outcry Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2p8r0 To end a war The US and the EU have also tried to diffuse the conflict in recent years through several ceasefire agreements. But those efforts have failed amid both sides repeatedly accusing each other of breaking ceasefire terms. The most recent ceasefire agreed in August fell apart after Russia accused Ukraine of blocking access to its observers. Despite the failures, Volker said only a renewed effort to resolve the conflict would help all sides regain normal diplomatic and economic relations. "We actually need to get it [the conflict] out of the dustbin and back to the front pages to get it resolved because otherwise we'll never get to that point that our European allies really want to get to," Volker said. "We've got to tackle it head on and we've got to have Russia willing to do that." Read more: Ceasefire extended in eastern Ukraine as US sends military equipment to Kyiv Every evening, the shelling begins around sunset. The front lines near Donetsk see nightly mortar and machine gun fire as the conflict between the Ukrainian military and pro-Russian separatists’ rages on. Caught in the crossfire are many elderly civilians who are too impoverished to go elsewhere. Ivan Polansky, above, surveys the damage on his home in Zhovanka. Residents of Zhovanka in the so-called ‘gray zone,’ a thin strip of land separating warring militaries, line up to see a visiting doctor. Medics hold pop-up clinics in the town once a week. "Each day, you are waiting for the shell to land on your house and you never know when it’s going to come," said local resident Ludmila Studerikove. Zhovanka was once home to 1,000 people, but the number has dwindled to about 200 since the war began in mid-2014. It has been three months since residents have had electricity and gas. "Sometimes I’m so scared that I lay in bed at night and just shake,” Studerikove said. “My husband stays by my side and holds my hand." Olexander Voroshkov, program coordinator for the regional charity SOS Kramatorsk, said residents continue to live in half-destroyed homes with leaky roofs, even through the winters, because rent in nearby Ukrainian cities has skyrocketed since the beginning of the conflict. "Rents in Kramatorsk are now similar to those in Kiev, but the salaries are much lower than in Kiev," Voroshkov said. Women line up to receive medicine and multivitamins in Zhovanka. Food and humanitarian supplies are delivered to the town by charity organizations, as crossing checkpoints sometimes requires people to wait more than a day in line. "We had everything; we had fresh air, nature. It was very nice here. Now we just have the cold," said local resident Vera Sharovarova. Vera Anoshyna, left, speaks with neighbors in Spartak, a town in what is now the Donetsk People’s Republic (DNR). Anoshyna said she has done her best to adapt to the conflict. "If you don’t have water, you find it," she said. "If you don’t have electricity, you find a solution. But you never know where the next bomb will land." Svetlana Zavadenko stands before her home in Spartak. She was injured when the walls collapsed after several mortars exploded in her yard. Neighbors had to dig Zavadenko out of the rubble and she was sent to the hospital with six broken ribs and a ruptured liver. She smokes “Minsk” brand cigarettes and laughs when asked what she thinks about the war. Zavadenko recovered from her injuries and lives alone with several pets. Spartak has not had electricity, gas, or water services since 2014, so she uses a grill to cook her food. For firewood, she goes to an abandoned furniture factory nearby and collects plywood. "Last winter we thought [the war] would finish, but now, honestly, we lost hope," she said. Damage from shelling on the outskirts of Donetsk. Despite past failures in deescalating the war, a new ceasefire may be in sight after an October peace summit in Berlin, where Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said he was ready to end hostilities in eastern Ukraine and would withdraw troops from the region. Even if both sides agree on a ceasefire, they will face opposition from their militaries, who claim their sacrifices were too heavy to simply put down their weapons. "We lost too many soldiers to stop now," said Vladimir Parkhamovich, colonel of the 81st Airmobile Brigade in the Ukrainian military. "If they give us an order [to stop] we’ll consider them traitors." Author: Diego Cupolo