Bild, Germany's most widely read newspaper, is not popular with an intellectual and well-read readership, to say the least — which makes it all the more remarkable that this media company is running the 2018 social media campaign for the World Jewish Congress on International Holocaust Remembrance Day. The #WeRemember campaign invites people from all over the world to upload photos of themselves. The pictures will be projected onto a large screen on January 27 at a commemorative event marking the anniversary of the Red Army's liberation of Auschwitz in 1945. The organizers hope that half a million people will take part. DW's Felix Steiner #WeRemember is a creative attempt to find new ways of remembering the Jews murdered by the Nazis. The accounts of living witnesses still related in school classrooms will soon be history. When Anita Lassker-Wallfisch, the only living member of the Women's Orchestra of Auschwitz, addresses the Bundestag next Wednesday, it may be the last time that we witness such a gripping appearance. And then what happens? Will future historians merely give speeches and go through the motions of the current rituals? That would be disastrous: Such a culture of remembrance would be repulsive and would probably achieve the opposite of what it is intended. Some people may hope for just that. "No more German guilt cult" has become a popular rallying cry in some social media circles. It no longer matters that three years ago Joachim Gauck, then the country's president, declared that there is "no German identity without Auschwitz." This is by no means accepted everyone who lives here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rXjR 'Matter for all' Jewish cemeteries in Germany have always been desecrated, swastikas have been drawn on walls, and "Du Jude" ("You Jew") is still used as an insult in schoolyards. Furthermore, many synagogues need permanent police protection. Not everyone seems to have learned the idea of "never again" as a basic lesson. Some of the anti-Semitism is expressed by immigrants from Islamic cultures. But Germany has set high goals with regard to this group. "Remembrance of the Holocaust remains a matter for all citizens living in Germany," Gauck had said on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz. The permanent places of remembrance are becoming increasingly important. Be it the Holocaust Memorial in Berlin (not a "monument of shame," but a "monument of shameful deeds"), the thousands of "stumbling blocks" — brass plates set into sidewalks and inscribed with the name, date of birth and date of death of a person persecuted by the Nazi regime — in front of the houses where Jews lived, or the historic sites of concentration and extermination camps. Mandatory school visits to concentration camps, one recent proposal, may have a lasting moving effect on young people. But it is certainly not a panacea for immunizing future generations against anti-Semitism. On the contrary, much more complex strategies are needed. In the long run, the raison d'etre for Germany's culture of remembrance in its present form will cease to exist. This is also a message 73 years after the liberation of Auschwitz. The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon