Entertainer Sir Elton John announced on Monday that he is to retire from concert tours, but says he wants to "go out with a bang" with a 300-show farewell. Speaking at a gala event in New York, the 70-year-old singer said his final global tour would open on September 8 and last until 2021. John, who is famous for hits including "Rocket Man" and "Candle in the Wind," insisted the decision was not linked to recent health problems, but because he wants to spend more time with his husband David Furnish and their two sons, Elijah and Zachary. Read more: How 'Candle in the Wind' became an anthem to Princess Diana 'Priorities changed' "It's the last time that I will be touring and traveling the world, because my priorities have changed in my life," he told several hundred journalists and guests after a mini-concert and virtual reality presentation of his decades-long career. "I've had a good run, I think you'd admit that," John said, adding that he wanted to "leave people thinking, 'I saw the last tour and it was fantastic.'" Asked if he may reconsider the decision, he vowed not to do a "Cher," in reference to the American singer who announced at least two farewell tours and two Las Vegas residencies. John, whose own Vegas residency ends in May after six years, ruled out another one before vowing: "I will be creative up until the day I die." Elton John will kick off his three-year tour in the US in September before dates in Europe in April 2019 One of the first openly gay entertainers, John has sold 300 million records over the past five decades, having topped the charts with "Your Song," "Sacrifice" and "Can You Feel the Love Tonight." He launched his first tour in 1970 and boasts of having performed more than 4,000 times in more than 80 countries. The British singer, songwriter and pianist is due to perform alongside Miley Cyrus at Sunday's Grammy Awards and will collect the President's Merit Award. Health concerns John, whose real name is Reginald Kenneth Dwight, has suffered several medical setbacks of late, including a bacterial infection last year that he contracted during a South American tour and an E. coli bacterial infection in 2009. He's also suffered appendicitis and has been fitted with a pacemaker. John's announcement comes two days after American singer Neil Diamond canceled a tour of Australia and New Zealand and retired from touring due to Parkinson's disease. The man born 1947 as Reginald Kenneth Dwight dominated Britain's pop scene in the 1970s. In the US, Elton John was one the first artists ever with four simultaneous top ten records. Queen Elizabeth II knighted him for his contributions to music and charity. At 70, Sir Elton looks back at a career that spans five decades of ups and downs. Elton John at the piano - an iconic picture. Above, the living legend is seen playing "Your song" at the start of his 2000 British tour - his heartfelt breakthrough title in 1970, his first single in the charts, a song that hit the top ten in England and the US. After that, there was no stopping Elton John. He worked incessantly, releasing three studio albums in 1971 alone. His biggest hits were all produced in the 1970s, "Rocket Man," "Crocodile Rock," "Goodbye Yellow Brick Road" and "Candle in the Wind." Duets with John Lennon ("Whatever gets you through the Night") and Kiki Dee ("Don't go breaking my heart") elevate Elton John to a pop titan. By 1976, Elton John was flush enough to finance another passion: soccer. He supported the Watford Football Club, a move that catapulted the team from forth division to the Premier League, and invested in the Los Angeles Aztecs. Above, Irish soccer legend George Best watches the pop star in action. The advocate for gay and lesbian rights founded the Elton John Aids Foundation in the early 1990s. John helps organize regular charity events - and he participates, like in the above 2016 celebrities' charity tennis tournament. The Queens's unhappy daughter-in-law, Lady Diana, was one of Elton John's best friends. After her death in a car accident in August 1997, Elton John rewrote the lyrics to "Candle in the Wind," a song he originally penned for Marilyn Monroe in 1974. Elton John peformed the song at Diana's funeral. The recording sold millions of copies and raised millions of euros for charity. Elton John came out as bisexual in 1976. He married the German sound engineer Renate Blauel in 1984. The marriage lasted four years. Two years after the break-up, Elton John declared his homosexuality. In 2005, Elton John and David Furnish documented their civil partnership, which was formally converted into a marriage nine years later. "As a gay man I am perfectly happy with my sexuality and my life. I can honestly say that the deepest longings of my heart are satisfied," John said in response to a Scottish cardinal's remarks about homosexuality. The couple adopted two boys, Zachary Jackson Levon and Elijah Joseph Daniel. Both children have the same surrogate mother - but whether John or Furnish is the biological dad remains a well-kept secret. John and Furnish adore dressing up in outlandish outfits. For John's 50th birthday, they showed up as a baroque couple, ten years later saw the pair decked out as banana republic dictators. Above, their outfit at a friend's birthday party. What will it be for John's 70th birthday? mm/se (AFP, AP, dpa)