As European Union negotiators kicked off preparations for the second round of Brexit talks, European Council President Donald Tusk on Tuesday urged the UK to rethink its divorce from the bloc. "Brexit will become a reality, with all its negative consequences, in March next year, unless there is a change of heart among our British friends," Tusk posted on Twitter. "We here on the continent haven't had a change of heart. Our hearts are still open to you." Picking up on Tusk's remarks, Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, whose executive arm is negotiating the terms of the UK's departure, said he hoped Brussels' wishes would be "heard in London." Read more: Brexit: Berlin nixes UK plea for bespoke banking deal Talks of a second referendum came to the fore in Britain last week after Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party and a prominent figure in pro-Brexit campaign, said a second vote would "kill off the issue for a generation once and for all." While constitutional lawyers remain divided over whether the UK can withdraw its two-year notice to leave the EU, Prime Minister Theresa May on Tuesday reaffirmed her determination to follow through on Brexit. "I think we've been absolutely clear, the British public voted to leave the European Union and that is what we will be doing," the spokesman for the prime minister told reporters. As it stands, the UK is set to leave the EU in March 2019, beginning a transition period of a little under two years. Britain is scheduled to completely withdraw from the bloc on December 31, 2020. Read more: 2018: The year of Brexit decisions Brussels to outline tougher terms for Brexit The remaining 27 EU member states are expected to back a tougher set of terms for the next round of Brexit negotiations. First, Brussels is expected to insist that the UK commits to all obligations during the two-year post-Brexit transition period, including accepting free immigration from the member states and remaining bound to the European Court of Justice. EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April that divided the talks into two phases. The first phase seeks to "settle the disentanglement" of Britain from the EU. Since talks began on July 17, negotiators have focused on three core issues: the "Brexit Bill," citizens' rights, and the Irish border. Brussels says London needs to continue paying into the EU budget after it leaves. The current budget expires in 2022 and EU officials want Britain to cover pensions and spending for EU loans and projects that it had committed to before triggering article 50. London has said it will honor its commitments, and both sides have reportedly agreed on a final bill of around £50 billion (€67 billion). The EU has said its citizens' rights in Britain is the "first priority" in the talks. It has proposed that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their rights after Brexit. But that arrangement would give the EU's highest court, the ECJ, jurisdiction over EU nationals in Britain, an outcome British officials have said they want to avoid. Both sides have expressed their desire to avoid the return of a hard border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. However, Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid that. British and EU officials would need to monitor goods crossing the border to ensure they adhered to each other's separate customs rules. Talks can only proceed to phase two if the EU deems that "sufficient progress" has been made on phase one issues. According to EU guidelines, phase two talks should identify "an overall understanding on the framework for the future relationship" for the period after Britain has left. Major issues in this phase are set to be trade, immigration, and security. Theresa May has said Britain will leave the European single market, the bloc's free trading area, and the EU customs union, which sets a common EU tariff to third-country goods. Britain could then negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration. London also wants a new EU-UK trade deal, but with only 18 months left for talks, there is little time to negotiate one. May has also vowed to control EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that single market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. (Author: Alexander Pearson) Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019, when Brexit talks conclude, and March 2021, when, supposedly, a new UK-EU trade deal comes into effect. How Britain will look during this transition remains unknown, but Brexit hardliners are unlikely to accept the UK remaining bound to the European Court of Justice (pictured) and paying its full share of the EU budget. Author: Alex Pearson Sources in Brussels have also implied that Europe's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, will also push the UK to allow EU citizens arriving in Britain during the transition period to retain the same rights currently enjoyed by EU expatriates. Talks on a possible trade deal between the UK and EU, as well as how close London chooses to remain to the European single market and customs union, aren't slated to begin until April. However, Brussels has rebuked a lack of detail on behalf of the UK as reason for the painfully slow progress of the negotiations. "What we need today is more clarity on the UK's vision," said Tusk. "The hardest work is still ahead of us and time is limited." Manfred Weber, the leader of the European People's Party group and a close ally of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said: "My message to London is: please don't complain anymore. Please stop complaining. Please deliver. Give us an outlook about what you want to achieve for the future relationship." It also remains to be seen whether the UK would be part of any free trade agreement struck by the EU and other countries during the transition and, if so, how it would transcend beyond December 31, 2020. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qUpG dm/kms (Reuters, AFP, AP)