Storm Friederike wreaked havoc in Germany earlier this month, causing €1 billion ($1.2 billion) in damage and killing eight people. Train traffic was shut down completely, and many cities saw power outages during and after the storm. Many people were cut off from cellphone service because the hurricane-force winds of up to 203 kilometers per hour (126 miles per hour) damaged telecommunications infrastructure. Fortunately, power and cell service came back quickly. But imagine for a second what would happen if an extreme weather event like Friederike shut down cell service for days at a time. There would be no possibility to reach friends or family to find out whether they're OK, and no way to call anyone to tell them you're injured, or to organize volunteers to fill sandbags during a flood, for example. A team of researchers in Germany has come up with a fix for situations exactly like that: Smarter, or Smartphone-based Communication Networks for Emergency Response. Through the Smarter app, cellphones can pass on information via a virtual data-backpack without the support of a central network. You'd be able to send messages without having any service. A game of telephone "Normally you can't use your phone if there's no service," Ralf Steinmetz, part of the Smarter project and head of the Multimedia Communications Lab at the Technical University (TU) Darmstadt, told DW. "But smartphones can communicate with each other through their own Wi-Fi if you enable them to do that. Their chips are capable of this, just not set up for it right now." The team behind Smarter includes colleagues of Steinmetz from TU Darmstadt, researchers from the University of Kassel and officials from Germany's Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance (BBK), which has previously participated in creating weather warning apps. Read more: Saving lives with warning apps The team set up a large-scale exercise in 2017 to see if Smarter could do the job, with 125 people trying the app on specially prepared smartphones. They were spread out across three abandoned villages in western Germany and used Smarter to call for help, contact loved ones or swap necessities like water and bandages through the app's bulletin board function. With the help of Smarter, the would-be disaster victims' phones could pass on information from one device to another, from there to a third one and so on — if the phones weren't more than 200 meters (656 feet) apart. So Smarter won't help you in deserted areas. Another thing to keep in mind: sending messages this way takes longer, so you won't know when your text or post will reach the intended recipient. Nevertheless, 70 percent of participants in the exercise still said they would download the Smarter app on their phone and use it in a real disaster. Don't wait for disaster to strike Steinmetz wants politicians to help make the Smarter app available Having an app like Smarter rolled out large-scale across Germany would improve communications during a natural disaster — or a cyberattack on communication infrastructure. "Something like this fortunately doesn't happen too often in Germany," Steinmetz said. "But flooding or a cyberattack can't be ruled out and then we'd be in trouble. The more digitized our society becomes, the more vulnerable it is [to hackers]. Sadly, a disaster has to occur before people can really see what measures should have been in place. Maybe we can be smarter and prepare a little beforehand this time." But there's bad news for those who want to start prepping right now: Smarter is not available in app stores yet. It wouldn't do users any good, either, since regular, store-bought smartphones aren't able to pass on information the way the app intends. Reluctant manufacturers, service providers "The technical basis is there; now we need to appeal to the phone manufacturers," the BBK said in a statement released on Tuesday. Right now, some phones can share data directly, but only if the other device is from the same manufacturer. IPhones use the AirDrop technology for sharing, for example, but that only works between two Apple devices, not an iPhone and an Android device. The Smarter developers had to change the software of the phones used in the exercise to allow the app to work. Mobile service providers are likely skeptics, too. "The service providers want you to use their network, of course," Steinmetz said. "You could theoretically use [the Smarter] technology to call people without any service, if the other person is nearby." Steinmetz believes it would be difficult to put pressure on Vodafone or Apple, so he and his colleagues are calling on politicians to step in. Just like a person is able to call police or firefighters without unlocking their phone, Steinmetz said, you should be able to communicate in a disaster when cell service is down. But that option is still a long way away. The stockpile plan outlined in the government’s "Concept for Civil Defense" paper obligates Germans to store 10 days' worth of food and five days' worth of drinking water. The idea is for people to have enough supplies - including cash and medicine - on hand to get them through an emergency situation before government assistance kicks in. The level of preparedness proposed in the paper hasn't been seen since the end of the Cold War. The strategy was originally commissioned by a parliamentary committee in 2012, but its release now comes amid a raft of new security measures and heightened terror concerns. Still, its contents aren't new - German authorities have long urged households to store two weeks' worth of emergency supplies. The Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, for example, has published a checklist online with recommended supplies for a 14-day period. The most important thing on the list is water - 28 liters per person for a fortnight, or around two liters per day. People can survive a few weeks without food, but only four days without liquid. The Ministry of Food even has an online "calculator" to help you work out what kind of food - and how much - to stock up on. It recommends 4.9 kilograms of cereal-based products like rice, bread and noodles per person per fortnight. It also suggests 5.6kg of veggies, 3.7kg each of milk products and fruit and nuts, and 2.1kg of fish and meat. All food should be able to last without refrigeration. While food and water are key to survival, hygiene is also important for preventing disease. Washing hands, showering and brushing teeth aren't so easy if there's no running water or electricity. If water is scarce, collect what is available in big containers or basins. And be sure to have enough soap, detergent, toothpaste, wet wipes, rubbish bags, hand sanitizer and toilet paper on hand. The government also advises keeping a medicine cabinet stocked with supplies in case it's not possible to get to a hospital. That means, among other things, a first aid kit, the necessary personal prescription drugs, cold medicine, painkillers, anti-diarrhea and nausea medicine, electrolytes, a thermometer and disinfectant. Power outages usually only last a few hours, but in emergency situations they could last days. That can mean no lights, no cell phones and no heating. To prepare for that eventuality, it's a good idea to have a supply of flashlights and candles handy, along with matches and batteries. If you have a fireplace, make sure you also have plenty of briquettes and wood. Battery-powered radios can be a useful way to get information if the power network is down, according to the Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance. In some cases these devices might be the only way to receive life-saving warnings in an emergency. Again, keep a supply of batteries and replace them regularly. A wad of cash is another important part of any household's emergency supplies. There may not be time to rush to a bank, and ATMs won't work if the power is out. The idea of stocking up on supplies suggests being trapped at home, but sometimes emergencies force you to leave. That's why it's wise to have a bag already packed. According to government advice, it should contain: first aid materials, meals for two days, key personal documents, a water bottle, sleeping bag, protective clothing, plus many of the other items mentioned earlier in this checklist. Author: Natalie Muller