The Greek film festival "Hellas Filmbox Berlin" hopes to present Greek films and filmmakers who considered to be rather unknown in Germany. Focusing on new Cypriot films this year, the festival wants to give representative insights about the Mediterranean island's film history, and to find out which themes and questions are being explored by Cypriot artists. The general objective of "Hellas Filmbox Berlin" is to present the creative side of Greece - with a particular focus on experimental film productions.  "Hellas Filmbox Berlin" was founded in 2015 when Greek-German relations were rather tense as a result of the rigid austerity policy that the EU demanded from Greece. The festival regards itself as a cultural bridge between the two countries. Diversity in Greek film "New Vision" from Greece for Germany Having received more than 300 submissions, 35 works made the cut in the end to be featured in various genres including documentary, short film and "New Vision." The movies will be shown during four days with the objective of making the German public more familiar with the rich diversity of the Greek film world. A new addition this year is the so-called "Box Talks" events series - a combination of workshops, entertainment and artists' portraits. Each "Box Talk" event focuses on one German and one Greek filmmaker or artist. Volker Schlöndorff is among the guests Among the famous guests attending the festival this year is German director Volker Schlöndorff, who will meet with his counterpart, Yannis Sakaridis - one of Greece's most renowned filmmakers. German composer and songwriter Konstantin Wecker meanwhile will make the acquaintance of filmmaker, screenwriter and producer Zafeiris Haitidis, who -as an "objective observer" filmed demonstrations, protests, rallies and events in Greece. Haitidis will present his interactive web initiative "Greek Chronicle Project: footage archive." The interactive web documentary includes roughly 2,200 videos of diverse lengths and more than 500 photos depicting the Greek financial crisis as well as the refugee crisis. DW is a media partner of "Hellas Filmbox Berlin," which runs from January 24 to 28 at its new location, Urban Spree in Berlin.