Turkish Defense Minister Nurettin Canikli on Friday said a military campaign aimed at ousting Kurdish forces from their enclave in Afrin "has de facto started" due to cross-border shelling. Days before the assault, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had warned of an imminent attack against the Peoples' Protection Units (YPG), a Kurdish militia in control of Afrin. Although the US has backed the YPG as one of the most capable forces fighting against the "Islamic State" (IS) militant group, Turkey has dubbed it a terrorist group for its alleged ties to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), a Kurdish group waging a decades-long insurgency in Turkey. Read more: The Middle East's complex Kurdish landscape "All terror networks and elements in northern Syria will be eliminated. There is no other way," Canikli told Turkish television. "The operation in central Afrin may last a long time, but the terrorist organization will swiftly come undone there." The YPG has held Afrin since 2012 when Syrian government forces withdrew and essentially handed over  large swaths of the northern part of the country to the Syrian Kurds. In the run-up to the offensive, Turkey transported heavy artillery and tanks near the Syrian border YPG vows resistance Turkish troops on Friday launched artillery fire towards Kurdish-held positions in Afrin, continuing barrages that have hit the region all week. Canikli said that soldiers had not been deployed to Syria, but were instead firing at Kurdish forces from across the border. However, Turkish media reported that 20 buses carrying Turkish-backed rebels from had crossed into Syria. Read more: As Syrian war nears end, some can never go home The YPG's spokesman in Afrin, Rojhat Roj, said Turkey's bombardment represented its hardest-hitting offensive since Erdogan began threatening the Kurdish-held area. "Currently there are no casualties, all the damage is material so far," Roj said. However, the YPG spokesman warned that Kurdish forces would not back down from defending their territories. 'Meaningless' The battle for Afrin has threatened to further deteriorate relations between Turkey and its military ally, the US. Turkey has labeled the YPG a terrorist group, while Washington has supported the YPG-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) against IS. The SDF controls about 25 percent of Syrian territory in the north and northeast. However, Afrin is noncontiguous to these territories and largely surrounded by Turkey and Turkish-backed rebels. Read more: Turkey-US relations 'entering a risky period' Earlier this month, the US announced plans to create a 30,000-strong stabilization force on the Syrian-Turkish border, including many Kurdish fighters. Washington said the force aimed to prevent a resurgence of IS in Syria. "The threat of Daesh has been removed in both Syria and Iraq. With this reality out in the open, a 'focus on Daesh' statement is truly a meaningless remark," said Canikli, referring to the militant group by its Arabic acronym. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurds have rarely fought Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with pro-Assad forces and moderate rebels, Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo and Idlib province. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson cw, ls/kms (AFP, Reuters, AP)