The US on Sunday called on its military ally Turkey to "exercise restraint" and limit the scope of its latest offensive in Syria aimed at uprooting the Peoples' Protection Units (YPG), a Kurdish militia, on its southern border. US State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spoke with his Turkish and Russian counterparts on the phone, warning them against an escalation in northern Syria. Read more: The Middle East's complex Kurdish landscape "We urge Turkey to exercise restraint and ensure that its military operations remain limited in scope and duration and scrupulous to avoid civilian casualties," said Nauert. Over the weekend, Turkey launched a major offensive – dubbed operation "Olive Branch" – in the Syrian enclave of Afrin. Kurdish forces gained control over the city of Afrin after Syrian troops fled their posts in 2012 during clashes with the Free Syrian Army (FSA). Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurds have rarely fought Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with pro-Assad forces and moderate rebels, Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo and Idlib province. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson France: 'Must stop' fighting Ankara's decision to launch the operation has pushed US-Turkey relations to new lows and forced other nations to urge an immediate end to the offensive. "This fighting ... must stop," French Defense Minister Florence Parly told France 3 Television on Sunday, adding that the new conflict could "deter Kurdish forces who are at the side" of the international coalition battling the "Islamic State" (IS) militant group in Iraq and Syria. Read more: Turkey-US relations 'entering a risky period' France also called for United Nations action to help minimize the "humanitarian risks" as the fighting escalates in Syria. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu later told reporters that he was disappointed by the French government's comments, and that he expected France to stand by an ally country, not with a "terror organization." If France does "not act like ally... then it would be treated as a country that sides with terrorists," Cavusoglu said. A Turkey-backed rebel commander said Russia has backed the operation with aerial support, despite being on opposing sides of the Syrian conflict 'With the help of Russian air force' Roughly 25,000 FSA militants have joined Turkey's offensive against Kurdish forces in Afrin, according to a rebel commander. "The task of the FSA is first to regain sixteen Arab towns and villages occupied by the foreign militias with the help of the Russian air force," FSA commander Yasser Abdul Rahim told Reuters news agency. Read more: As Syrian war nears end, some can never go home Turkey's latest offensive against Kurdish forces is expected to complicate attempts to find a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Syria, said Russian lawmaker and defense committee chairman Vladimir Shamanov, according to the state-owned TASS news agency. "This will introduce certain complications for the start of the inter-Syrian dialogue in Sochi," Shamanov said. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticised by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart ls,nm/rc (Reuters, AFP, AP)