At least 95 people have been killed and 158 others wounded by a bomb attack in the Afghan capital of Kabul, according to the Health Ministry. The attack happened near the old Interior Ministry building in an area known for housing the European Union's headquarters in Afghanistan and other diplomatic missions, demonstrating how militant groups can reach even secure areas of the capital. Read more: 'The consequences of failure in Afghanistan will reach Germany,' says Hamid Karzai 'Massacre' A massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German Embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack, but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past. The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses. In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike. US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman. But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Interior Ministry deputy spokesman Nasrat Rahimi told the AFP news agency: "The suicide bomber used an ambulance to pass through the checkpoints. He passed through the first checkpoint saying he was taking a patient to Jamuriate hospital, and at the second checkpoint he was recognized and blew his explosive-laden car." Afghan security expert Brigadier General AD Mohammed Arif told DW: "Normally, the Taliban start their offensive after winter, but they have now brought this offensive forward in response to the US's new Afghanistan strategy. They want to show they are far from being defeated." Read more: The Afghan security problem An EU official said the bloc's delegation to Afghanistan was in a designated "safe room," adding that the officials did not suffer any casualties. "All countries should take decisive action" against the Taliban, said US President Donald Trump. Police were targeted by the Taliban's latest attack in Kabul Why does the Taliban target security forces: The Taliban launched an insurgency in the wake of the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, seeking to push out international forces and topple the Western-backed government. Read more: Why are Afghan militants targeting aid workers? What happens next: Authorities are likely to open a probe into the attack and bolster security in the area, which hosts several embassies and the EU's headquarters in Kabul. ls/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters)