Swaying her six-month old son back and forth in her arms, Eva Rasho is singing a lullaby to relax the crying infant. "You are a Belgian boy, please don't cry, my Belgian boy," she rhymes. Eva and her husband Ahmad are celebrating their upcoming move to Belgium. A Syrian mother, she gave birth to their son Sam in Lebanon last July but could not register him with the Lebanese authorities because both Eva and Ahmad are staying illegally in Beirut. "At least one of us should be legal to register our baby in Lebanon," she told DW. Ahmad fled Damascus in 2014 to dodge compulsory draft and Eva, in love with Ahmad since college, followed him a year later. The couple married in Beirut in 2015 and just a week ago, were granted asylum by Belgium. Sam probably doesn't know it yet, but his life is about to change dramatically "We were so worried earlier about what nationality Sam would be. A Syrian or Lebanese or nothing?" she recalls. Discrimination against Syrians? Fearing repatriation to Syria, Ahmad did not dare go to the Lebanese authorities to register. Eva managed to procure all the necessary papers and visited the general security office in Beirut seeking legalization, but she was shown the door. She accuses Lebanon of systematic discrimination against the Syrians. "They said if you stay here you will take jobs which belong to the Lebanese, so go back to Syria." Mike Bruce, Information Adviser at the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) in Beirut, told DW that a recent change in the law allows for unregistered families to register their babies within the first 12 months but a Kafkaesque process continues to hinder them. The unregistered parents don't have residency rights, without which they can't move around freely. They live with the constant fear of being arrested or thrown out of the country. As a result these families feel reluctant to document the birth of their newborns. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cMDy "Even if the regulations permit them to register," says Bruce, "physically going to do so is a major barrier." These conditions effectively impose a state of statelessness on thousands of babies born outside of Syria over the last seven years of the Syrian war. Surveys by the UN's refugee agency, UNHCR, and the NRC suggest the number of unregistered children in Lebanon to be as high as 50,000. Factor in the millions of refugees in Jordan, Turkey and Iraq and the number of affected children is likely to be even higher. Bruce highlights the problems such children face. "When a person's birth goes unregistered, it makes it more difficult to seek international protection, to access basic services and increases the risk of statelessness." Explaining Lebanon's reluctance Half of Syria's 22 million people have been uprooted by the war. Five million took refuge in the neighboring countries and 1 out of 5 sought shelter in Lebanon. With more refugees per capita than any other nation in the world, Lebanon is not particularly excited about offering citizenship to Syrians. The country's economy is fragile as it combats high inflation, price hikes and unemployment. At the same time, the delicate sectarian balance is tilting in favor of Sunni Muslims — most Syrians in Lebanon are Sunnis. Political power in Lebanon is shared between Christians and Sunni and Shiite Muslims — a shift in one direction or the other can jeopardize the arrangement. The Lebanese also carry a historical baggage. In 1948, after Israel's take-over of the Palestinian lands, thousands of Palestinians made their way to Lebanon and stayed. Now, the Lebanese are worried that granting residency rights to Syrians could make it attractive for them to stay and not return to their home land. A state lost, a new one gained Eva and Ahmad are excited about starting a new life in Belgium Eva and Ahmad are thrilled about their move to Belgium. They both prefer a European nation over Syria or Lebanon for Sam. "I hate Syria," says Ahmad. "Why do we want to go back to Syria, what's there?" he asks. Ahmad is disappointed in the regime and the rebels for turning his country into a bombed-out carcass of its former self. He and others say they have witnessed their country go through an annihilating war which ceased to be about the Syrians a long time ago. Eva doesn't hurt for Syria either, though her issues are related to her gender and societal pressure that came with it. A Kurd, she comes from a part of Salamiyeh city which is dominated by the Kurdish Syrians. Falling in love with an Arab meant she was ostracized. Some of her family members, like her brother, have cut off ties with Eva for daring to choose her Ahmad. Now she feels that her past experiences have prepared her for the cultural shift in Belgium. "During the war, the Syrians and the Lebanese thought I was pro 'Islamic State' because I wore a hijab. Now I wear a turban which looks like a cap, this will work in Belgium too," she says with a smile. Eva has heard the stories of Syrians involved in criminal acts or the racism they encounter in Europe but she isn't concerned. She works as a conversation partner for Westerners learning Arabic and has been giving lessons via Skype to Americans, Germans, French and Canadians. "They are good people, very kind," says Eva, dismissing the suggestion that her family will face problems or her son may have to fight a longer battle for acceptance in a new state. "Every country has its problems. It is better to have a state with functioning schools." A boy looks out from a school in Nizip 2 refugee camp in southern Turkey. Many Syrians have lived here for more than five years, but have difficulties integrating into Turkish society due to language barriers and the trappings of informal labor. This camp offers high-end accommodations by international standards, but some residents continue to struggle with social isolation. Built on the banks of the Euphrates River in 2012, Nizip 2 offers free education, health care and supermarkets to its residents. Families live in individual shipping container-sized homes, complete with bathrooms, heating and air condition - a stark difference from traditional canvas tent camps that are at the mercy of inclement weather. About 4,500 Syrians currently live in Nizip 2. According to the Turkish Ministry of National Education, 40 percent of Syrian school-aged children are out of school. In camps like Nizip 2, free education is offered for students of all ages in Arabic, Turkish and English. Yet some refugees have found the process of learning Turkish to be slow, inhibiting their prospects for higher paying jobs in the country. "For children, it’s better outside the camp because they are learning Turkish very slowly and would learn faster if they were in class with Turkish students," said Mustafa Omer, an English teacher in the Nizip 2 school, who is originally from Homs, Syria. "But they feel safe in the camp with their community, and that is most important to us," he told DW. "The interaction between the [Syrian and Turkish] children is important to ease the social tensions," says Omar Kadkoy, a researcher who specializes in economic and social refugee integration. "However, both public schools and temporary education centers suffer from a mutual shortcoming: the lack of qualified personnel to teach Turkish as a second language." Yet there are success stories. Mahir Ismail, 17, right, said he’s been studying Turkish for one year. "It’s easy to learn Turkish," he told DW. "I can understand 70 percent of it." When Ismail finishes high school he hopes to study engineering. According to Camp Director Ibrahim Halil Demir, 39 camp residents currently attend the nearby Gaziantep University. Unemployment is high among Syrians, but many find low-skilled jobs, mainly in hard labor sectors, while others start their own companies. Of the 6,000 Syrian companies established in Turkey between 2011 and March 2017, 13 percent were located in the Gaziantep province, according to Kadkoy. Still, many Syrians struggle to transfer their skills into Turkey’s workforce. Kahraman Marash, 24, seated, was in the camp to visit his grandparents on a day off. He works 12-hour shifts, seven days a week, at a kebab shop in a nearby city for 1,000 liras ($270, 256 euros) a month. "I want to learn Turkish and go to school but don’t have time," he told DW. "My parents depend on my salary." Overwhelmingly, camp residents have one thing on their minds: going home. Mohamed Haaji, left, 17, picks vegetables and fruits for 35 liras a day ($9.50, 9 euros). He says there's no point in going to school because he wants to go back to Syria. Zakaria Aried, 57, right, is from Raqqa and is waiting for the city to be liberated from the "Islamic State" group. Ayush Ahmed, out of frame, holds one of her two granddaughters. She has lived in Nizip 2 for five years and was one of the first camp residents. Both her granddaughters were born while her family lived in the camp. "If we stay here, my granddaughters will be Turkish," Ahmed said. "If we go home, they will be Syrian." Author: Diego Cupolo (Nizip)