A German woman of Moroccan origin was sentenced to death by hanging by a court in Iraq on Sunday after she was found guilty of joining the "Islamic State" (IS) group. The unnamed woman was convicted of "offering logistic support and helping the terrorist group to carry out criminal acts," and "taking part in attacks against security forces," Supreme Judicial Council spokesman Abdul-Sattar Bayrkdar said. He added that the woman had admitted during interrogation that she joined IS after traveling from Germany to Syria and then to Iraq along with her two daughters. Both daughters later married militants. Read more: Children of 'Islamic State' struggle to integrate in Germany Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al-Qaida splinter group with a militant Sunni Islamist ideology. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create a worldwide "caliphate." It gained worldwide notoriety in 2014 after a blitzkrieg military campaign that resulted in the capture of Mosul. IS is believed to be operational in more than a dozen countries across the world. It controls territories in Iraq and Syria. However, the group has lost much of the territory it controlled in Iraq and Syria at the height of its expansion in 2014. The US leads an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia, Iran and its Lebanese Shiite ally Hezbollah, which all support the Syrian government, also fight IS. Regional forces such as the Kurdish peshmerga (above) and US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters, fight IS on the ground. The Iraqi army and militia have pushed IS from large parts of the country. One of IS' main sources of income has been oil and gas. At one point, it controlled an estimated one-third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led airstrikes deliberately targeted oil resources and the Syrian government as well as US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters have retaken most oil wells. Other means of income include taxes, ransom, selling looted antiquities and extortion. IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The militant group has targeted capitals across the EU, including Berlin, Brussels and Paris. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group. The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artifacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing." The group has also enslaved thousands of women from religious minority groups, including Yazidis. IS also uses a sophisticated social network to distribute propaganda and recruit sympathizers. IS has further exacerbated the ongoing Syrian conflict. Millions of Syrians and Iraqis have fled their homes, many traveling to Europe in pursuit of refuge. Although it has lost all of its strongholds, the militant group has left extraordinary destruction in its wake. Areas affected by the militant group's rule will likely take years to rebuild. Author: Rachel Stewart The woman was captured last year during the operation by Iraqi forces to recapture Mosul from the militant group. She is the first foreign woman to be sentenced to death in Iraq for joining IS. The verdict can be appealed. Fighters and wives await trial Hundreds of foreign fighters from Europe joined IS after the jihadist group seized large swathes of territory in Iraq and neighboring Syria in 2014. Read more: From fighting 'Islamic State' to rotting in Iraqi jail Many of them, including women, were arrested as Iraqi forces expelled the militants from the country. Germany's justice ministry confirmed last September that a German teenage girl suspected of joining IS was detained in Mosul. German news magazine Der Spiegel reported she was being held in Baghdad along with three other German women, including one of Moroccan origin. The teenager, known only as Linda W. under Germany's privacy laws, from Pulsnitz in Saxony, apparently married a Chechen IS fighter. Read more: German 'Islamic State' bride regrets joining terror group in Iraq Many other IS rebels and their wives are thought to have escaped capture by blending in with civilians fleeing the fighting. Baghdad declared victory against IS in December but the group has continued to carry out attacks including in the capital. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fsTr mm/jlw (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)