Given the club's history and tradition, there's a sense of entitlement to Stuttgart's top-flight status. The decision to sack Wolf on the surface lacks foresight, wreaks of hitting the panic button and sends a clear message that stability, loyalty and long-term viability will all be sacrificed to achieve the short-term aim of staying up. Was Hannes a big, bad Wolf? In a public display of support, sporting director Michael Reschke "completely ruled out” any chance of Wolf leaving following the 2-0 defeat to Schalke, but a matter of hours and a "very intense and emotional discussion” later, the two had parted ways. Given how the series of events unfolded on Saturday evening, it's also plausible that Wolf offered to fall on his sword for the good of the club with Reschke admitting that the young coach wasn't sure if he was "reaching the players 100%”. Prospects look bleak Either way, Stuttgart have taken a gamble. Yo-yoing between the top two tiers has been deemed beneath of club of Stuttgart's stature, but there's little end in sight to their current slump in form. With Köln picking up a head of steam, Bremen producing more consistent performances and Hamburg picking up the occasional points, Stuttgart have every reason to be concerned. They have picked up just one win in their last eight outings, leaving them just four points clear of the automatic relegation spots and three abreast of Werder in 16th. Profligacy haunting Stuttgart Out on the pitch Stuttgart's inability to convert chances is clearly their biggest headache. Die Schwaben have drawn a blank nine times and scored just 16 times by way of six different goalscorers this season – only last-placed Cologne have fared worse in front of goal. Mario Gomez is yet to score since returning to Stuttgart in the Janaury transfer window. While Mario Gomez's button begins to collect dust after an anti-climactic homecoming, Simon Terrode, the man sold to Cologne, is averaging a goal a game for the Billy Goats, rubbing further salt in Stuttgart's wounds. Holding out for a hero Wolf looked to be the long-term solution Stuttgart had been crying out for, but in light of his departure, Reschke claimed that Stuttgart needed "fresh momentum” in the bid to beat the drop and the rumor mill has already started churning. Thomas Tuchel, Markus Weinzierl, Andries Jonker and even Felix Magath have been linked with the vacant role, but is Stuttgart an attractive enough project to lure in a big name or will they, like so many other Bundesliga outfits recently, resort to promoting from within? Rescuing a semblance of stability is priority number one for any incoming head coaches, but the job in essence is simple. Tread the party line, get Stuttgart scoring and, no matter what it costs, keep the club up.