Suat Corlu, who works as a journalist in Istanbul and is a board member of the Socialist Party of the Oppressed (ESP), has been detained again by Turkish police on Thursday. Like his wifeMesale Tolu, a German journalist with Turkish roots who was freed from prison last month, Corlu has been accused of being a member of a terrorist organization. Corlu had only been freed from jail on November 29. Both Tolu and Corlu were arrested and jailed in April 2017. Corlu's wife, Mesale Tolu, has urged Germany to put more pressure on Turkey Read more:Mesale Tolu urges more pressure on Turkey At least four other activists were also detained in raids in major Turkish cities late on Thursday, which also targeted the Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF). ESP said at least five of its members were arrested in the raids. The party is part of the pro-Kurdish HDP party, which has repeatedly been targeted by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Tolu remains in Turkey Tolu, who hails from the southwestern German city of Ulm and has German citizenship, had worked in Turkey for the ETHA news agency and as a translator. She was ordered to stay in Turkey after her release, a move that was criticized by human rights organizations. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r3xJ The German government welcomed her release in December 2017, with Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel saying it was an "immense relief" and a "clear sign of thawing relations" between Turkey and Germany. But he also reminded Ankara back in December that there was "still a good deal of problems," alluding to Turkey's crackdown on civil servants, journalists and other people labeled as dissenters since a failed coup in 2016. The arrest comes as Germany and Turkey had just resumed regular consultations after a break of almost a year following the arrest of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel, who along with other journalists, remains behind bars. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 17, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier ng/sms (dpa, Reuters)