Spain on Thursday said it planned to challenge ousted former Catalan president Carles Puigdemont's nomination to lead the new Catalan parliament at the Spanish Constitutional Court. Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said that the outstanding warrant for Puigdemont's arrest meant that he could not take up the public office. Read more: Opinion: After Catalan elections, it's back to the drawing board The background As the world watched, Catalonia's parliament voted 70 to 10 for the region to declare its independence from Spain. "Our legitimate parliament has taken a very important step. This is the people's mandate," Puigdemont said after the decision. Dozens of opposition lawmakers from the Socialist Party, Citizens Party and Popular Party had walked out of the parliament chamber to boycott the vote. Within an hour of the Catalan vote, the Spanish Senate in Madrid passed a bill to trigger Article 155 of the Spanish constitution. The measure will allow the central government to suspend Catalonia's autonomy. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he would sack Catalonia’s government and set new regional elections for December 21. European leaders were quick to condemn the independence declaration. EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said the Union "doesn't need any more cracks," while EU Council President Donald Tusk said Madrid "remains our only interlocutor." Leaders in Germany, France, Italy and the UK voiced their support for Madrid. The US also chimed in, saying "Catalonia is an integral part of Spain." Barcelona and Madrid had been in a standoff since 93 percent of voters opted for Catalan independence in an October 1 referendum marred by police violence. Spain said the poll was illegal and stressed the low voter turnout of 43 percent. It subsequently threatened to suspend the region's autonomy if Catalan leaders did not stop their drive for independence. Many had expected tensions to ease on October 26 when Catalan President Carles Puigdemont was expected to call snap elections to bow to a key Spanish government demand. But Puigdemont refused, saying that he did not have enough "guarantees" from Madrid. Instead, he called on the Catalan parliament to decide on how to respond to Spain's threat to suspend the region's autonomy. Tens of thousands of pro-independence protesters had taken to the streets of Barcelona ahead of the independence declaration to demand the region's secession and the release of two leaders of pro-independence organizations, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sanchez. Independence has divided Catalonia. Many who supported continued unity with Spain refused to vote in the October 1 referendum. The pro-independence crowds outside the Catalan parliament immediately rejoiced after hearing the independence declaration. Many people were draped in the "Estelada" flag associated with Catalan independence. Some reportedly called for the Spanish flag to be removed from the Catalan government palace as regional lawmakers arrived from the parliament. (Author: Alexander Pearson) Author: Alexander Pearson Puigdemont 'does not enjoy full rights' Saenz de Santamaria said the Spanish government had asked Spain's Council of State, an advisory body to the government, to provide an opinion on whether it can appeal the Catalan parliament speaker's nomination of Puigdemont to the constitutional court. If the council's opinion matched the Madrid government's, the appeal would be filed immediately. Read more: Carles Puigdemont: Fugitive Catalan ex-leader called to form government "The parliament speaker has put forward as candidate someone who does not enjoy his full rights, who has no right to freedom of movement," Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said. "Mr. Torrent must have known that Mr. Puigdemont could not enter Spain without being detained." Spain is seeking Puigdemont's arrest and therefore does not wish for him to show up in the Catalan parliament without it noticing. On Tuesday, Interior Minister Juan Ignacio Zoido said authorities were "taking steps along the border and inside the country, everywhere, to see that that does not happen." "We are doing it in such a way that he cannot enter [the Catalan parliament] even in the boot of a car," he told Spanish television. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2pr7D How the Catalonia crisis unfolded: On October 1 last year, Catalonia went ahead with an independence referendum that had been declared illegal by the Spanish government and courts. The result: While around 90 percent of participants voted for independence, the voter turnout was only 43 percent as opponents boycotted the vote. In the Catalan parliamentary vote, which passed 70 to 10, dozens of opposition lawmakers also boycotted the ballot. Read more: Madrid orders Brussels reps to bar Puigdemont meeting How did the Spanish government react: Madrid sacked Puigdemont, Vice President Oriol Junqueras and four other cabinet members, imposing direct Spanish control on Catalonia. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy called new elections in December but the results did not change drastically, with separatist parties maintaining a slight majority. Read more: Carles Puigdemont can't govern Catalonia from exile, Madrid says Why is Madrid against Catalan independence: Concerns have been raised about what Catalonia's independence would mean for Spain's already ailing economy. Catalonia is home to 7.5 million people, roughly 16 percent of Spain's total population, and generates more than one fifth of the country's GDP. According to figures from the European Commission, Catalonia's exports account for 20 percent of the Spanish total. Moreover, about 25 percent of foreign investment in Spain is in Catalonia. What happens next: Puigdemont has said he could be sworn in remotely from Brussels, which Spain's central government is against. On Wednesday, he said he should be present at the parliamentary session due next week where lawmakers would officially vote him in. However, Deputy Prime Minister Saenz de Santamaria said there was "an arrest warrant against Mr. Puigdemont in Spain, so the first thing he should do in Spain is go to Spanish judicial authorities." law/msh (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)