DW: Pakistan claims it has made huge sacrifices in combating terrorism but they are not recognized by the West. You also mentioned once that you are one of the biggest victims of terrorism and that you lost your mother because of it. Against this backdrop, how would you present Pakistan's position on this issue to the international community? Bilawal Bhutto Zardari: It is the duty of all of us to present Pakistan's views and concerns on this issue and I shall contribute my part. We should openly debate about extremism and terrorism, not just about militancy. The cultural and ideological narratives should also be discussed. In doing so, militancy should be countered. As far as Pakistan's sacrifices are concerned, I think it may be that the world's major powers prioritize their strategic interests rather than fight against extremism and terrorism. So if we want to fight these problems in our own country, we should do it on our own. We are currently pursuing whatever military options are available, but there is no holistic approach and we're not implementing a national action plan to resolve the problem. We are also not doing anything about counteracting the extremist ideological narrative. As Pakistan hasn't even had a foreign minister for four years now, it's difficult to imagine who could do the job of presenting Pakistan's perspective on this issue to the international community. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2q3Rx We have to fight against extremism and terrorism not for [US President Donald] Trump or for [Indian PM Narendra] Modi, but just for ourselves. Opposition parties in Pakistan are trying their best to affect a change in government and bring forward the next elections. What is your policy in this regard? The Pakistan People's Party is ready for elections. Whether they are held as per the current timetable or are brought forward, we are fully prepared. But for a democratic transition, it is necessary that parliament completes its term and that the power transition from one civilian government to the other happens smoothly. It will be good for our country. The problem, in my opinion, however, is that [former PM] Nawaz Sharif wants to destroy the whole system by any means and at any cost so that he can escape from the problems posed by the Panama Papers scandal. You once criticized Nawaz Sharif of being disloyal to the country because of his friendship with Narendra Modi. Do you still believe that friendly relations with a neighbor are a sign of disloyalty? Whatever I said was in the context of Kashmir. I criticized Nawaz Sharif's personal friendship with Modi, but my point has been that there should be good and friendly ties between India and Pakistan at state level. But friendship between these two leaders hasn't turned into a friendly relationship between the two states. We therefore should have engagement at state level. Read more: What Donald Trump can really do to 'rein in' Pakistan Ahead of elections, Pakistan heads toward more political chaos In recent years, critics say freedom of expression and free press have been increasingly under threat in Pakistan. What is your take on this? I think they are right. Pakistan's media is in a state of crisis nowadays for a number of reasons. Media outlets in the country are increasingly influenced by government officials and big businessmen, and they try to create a narrative suited to their interests. Secondly, the kind of atrocities journalists go through is really bad. When such things happen even in the capital Islamabad, they send a very bad signal. But it's not just in Pakistan that free speech is under attack. That's the case now in many parts of the world. So we have to discourage this trend and address this issue by standing up for those in the media community, both in Pakistan as well as across the world. What is your view on the issue of fake news? I have said that propaganda, misinformation and disinformation have always been part of political warfare.   Social media and other new platforms have given it a new life and reach through which the fake news phenomenon can reach everywhere. In this regard, during my discussion at the World Economic Forum, I basically focused on how to teach and train the youth what is real journalism and how to practice real journalism. We need to tell them about biases and sourcing. We should teach them how to take into account views from all sides. I think censorship in the name of fighting fake news is a dangerous thing for Pakistan. Bilawal Bhutto Zardari is chairman of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP). The interview was conducted by DW Urdu's Irfan Aftab on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. Shehzil Malik says there is no simple answer to how to manage being a woman. She drew this comic to achieve catharsis after having experienced countless episodes of harassment in her local park. "You can't rationalize the fear that very genuinely exists when you step outside," says Malik. Malik finds it unjust to be held back by unalterable facts such as being a woman or a Pakistani. "This is the only time we have to live our lives, and life is too short and the world is too beautiful to stay indoors and rob yourself of the magic that waits for you. I am determined to have my day in the sun." Many Pakistanis consider dark skin to be an undesirable trait. In her teens, Shehzil battled with a sense of inferiority to her light-skinned counterparts, regularly drawing comfort from a skin-whitening cream later revealed to contain strong toxins. In college, when she met powerful women from all over the world, she realized that that beauty comes in all shapes, sizes and colors. Visuals that represent who we are or aspire to be change the way we perceive ourselves. Malik says that if she had grown up with bold women of color as role models, she would have realized earlier that her potential went beyond the Pakistani conventions she was raised with. "If you didn't see a brown badass female superhero growing up, how'd you know if it were possible?" The illustration was inspired by a girl in Malik's neighborhood whom she saw learning to ride a motorbike. The image was blown up to 11 feet and pasted onto a wall in Lahore. "I was curious about the reactions it would get, but the next day it had disappeared," says Malik. "The removal of the biker girl has opened up new questions about street art in Pakistan and how women are seen in public." One of Malik's favorites from the collection, this illustration is of her younger sister, whom Malik credits as a source of knowledge, kindness and inspiration. "This is a tribute to women who read, women who add to our knowledge, women who teach us to be better." "Needlessly, our bodies are sites of political expression," says Malik, who created this illustration after France placed a ban on the burkini, the full body beachwear preferred by some Muslim women. "When I look at my friends who wear the hijab, I see women with a strong sense of self who are open-minded to my differing views and take responsibility for their decisions." After drawing about women in public spaces, Shehzil Malik's project "Step Out!" includes artwork and photographs that show women taking ownership of the city. Posing in this image from Malik's shoot for her feminist fashion line made in collaboration with the clothing retailer Generation is the fashion model Eman Suleman. Author: Farhad Mirza