A partial jawbone and set of flint tools found in a cave in Israel suggests that modern humans may have left the African continent tens of thousands of years earlier than scientists had previously thought. Researchers who published their findings in the journal Science on Thursday said the jaw, complete with several teeth, was between 177,000 and 194,000 years old. The estimate indicates that the first Homo sapiens may have left Africa about 220,000 years ago — between 50,000 and 100,000 years earlier than previous fossil discoveries had suggested. Read more: Archaeologist Lutz: ‘We really weren’t expecting this tremendous discovery’ Life and death are inseparable. The exhibition "A Brief History of Humankind" in Bonn's Bundeskunsthalle museum shows how, 13.8 billion years ago, molecules began to connect and turn into structured organisms. The above video still by US artist Bruce Conner shows what could spell the end of evolution: the nuclear bomb. Remains of the oldest Eurasian hearth dating back 780,000 years were discovered on the banks of the river Jordan. The ability to control fire was a turning point in evolutionary history that moved mankind to the top of the food chain. Fire gave light, kept people warm; people cooked over a fire and used it to make stone tools. It was a gathering place - a Stone Age TV. Homo sapiens had a fleeting chin, slanting forehead and a narrow brow ridge. The above skull is about 100,000 years old and was found in Israel, where Homo sapiens co-existed with Neanderthals for quite some time. All of the artifacts displayed in the Bonn exhibition are from Israel - and it's the first time they are on view in Europe. This Neanderthal skull was unearthed in the Amud Cave in Galilee. Anatomically, it is nothing like the skull of Homo sapiens: the chin is even more fleeting, the back of the head shows an indentation. These early humans not only fulfilled their basic needs, archaeologists also found they held burial rituals and other forms of culture. What makes us human? Family plays a huge role. Apart from historical objects, the exhibition also presents works by contemporary artists. US sculptor Charles Ray's 1993 "Family Romance" shows the fine line that connects family. In this sculpture, two parents hold their offspring's hands; however, the normalcy of a nuclear family is disrupted as both son and daughter are as tall as mom and dad. Humans started forming figurines depicting gods about 8,000 years ago, at a time when people were settling, planting fields and forming communities. They created goddesses they could pray to for good harvests and fertility. The phallic shape in the above photo could also symbolize a male god. Lines and etchings indicate abstract portraits. Unlike animals, humans can collect and write down knowledge. The Sumerians in southern Mesopotamia began to record information and numbers. This clay tablet was inscribed between 4,000 and 3,100 BC, paving the way for the complex memory systems needed to build cities and empires. This coin made of electrum, a gold and silver alloy, is the oldest-known coin in the world. Embossed with the picture of a grazing stag, it is from the seventh century BC. Of course, other forms of payment already existed: sea shells, pearls and promissory notes. In the third century BC, Arad was a flourishing business center at the crossroads of two trade routes in the Middle East. For 350 years, it was a magnificent city of palaces, temples and homes. The above model shows a typical square one-room dwelling with a flat roof, dating back to between 3,000 to 2,650 BC. In 1912, Albert Einstein developed the theory of relativity, a sensation and a scientific revolution. The Israel Museum in Jerusalem owns the original manuscript to E=mc². The mathematical formula embodies the two sides of progress: With it, mankind gained important insight into physics, but it also enabled the creation of the first nuclear bomb. Author: Sabine Oelze (db) "The entire narrative of the evolution of Homo sapiens must be pushed back," said Israel Hershkovitz, the study's lead author. "If modern humans started traveling out of Africa some 200,000 years ago, it follows that they must have originated in Africa at least 300,000-500,000 years ago," the anthropologist from Tel Aviv University added. Most scientists agree that Homo sapiens first emerged in Africa. The oldest known human fossils there are thought to be 300,000 years old. Read more: Is man the eternal migrant?: Neanderthal Museum explores history of human movement Owner had 'friends' Hershkovitz's team had found the partial jaw, which belonged to a young adult of unknown gender, in Misliya Cave, about 7.5 miles (12 kilometers) south of Haifa in 2002, waiting more than a decade to search for other human remains before publishing their findings. One of the study's co-authors, Mina Weinstein-Evron, said the age of the 60,000 flint tools, some nearly 250,000 years old, indicated that Homo sapiens may have first exited Africa even earlier. The research team also said the jaw's owner could not have built all of the tools, suggesting that there were many more humans in the area at the time. "This guy or woman would have been very busy," Weinstein-Evron said. "He didn't have enough time do this. He couldn't have made all of it. He must have had some friends." Read more: Earliest Homo sapiens fossils discovered in Morocco Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eMO1 amp/mkg (dpa, Reuters, AP)