The German government had announced Friday that it would "immediately" stop approving arms exports to any country participating in the war in Yemen. The move would include Saudi Arabia, a major buyer of German weapons. The document agreed upon by Germany's Christian Democratic Union (CDU), its Bavarian sister party CSU and the Social Democrats (SPD) in exploratory coalition talks contains a sentence with major ramifications. The sentence, nestled towards the end of the document, could put and end to arms deals worth millions of euros. It succinctly states: "Effective immediately, the government will prohibit arms exports to countries involved in the Yemen conflict." Over the past years, German parliamentarians have debated extensively whether or not to condone arms exports to conflict regions. Now, a turnaround appears to have been decided in a surprisingly nonchalant manner. Seibert offered a series of non-answers when asked what the ban really means Effective 'immediately' Or was the turnaround a fait accompli? Speculation has ensued in Berlin over how the sentence should be interpreted. After all, it does state the turnaround is "effective immediately." Asked whether this declaration really meant the immediate end to German arms exports, government spokesman Steffen Seibert circumnavigated the issue and flatly stated: "Members of Germany's caretaker government are bound by what the ministries agree among each other." It was one of several vague statements made by Chancellor Angela Merkel's longtime spokesman, when members of the press pounced upon the opportunity to question him at a regularly held press briefing. Seibert also stated: "We make rigorous case-by-case assessments on the basis of Germany's strict rules governing arms exports." Shortly after the press conference ended, he took to Twitter to say the following: "To clarify: The government will not approve arms exports that contravene agreements made in the exploratory coalition talks." German trucks and boats for warring factions Clarification is certainly needed. Because it's unclear if the sentence also applies to already approved arms sales to countries involved in the Yemen conflict. And those countries go beyond Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Jordan. Last year, arms exports worth a total of 1 billion euros ($1.22 billion) were approved. Moreover, in the last quarter of 2017 alone, Berlin approved the sale of trucks and patrol boats worth some 150 million euros to Saudi Arabia. Egypt, in turn, was set to receive exports worth almost 300 million euros. Much of what Berlin had previously approved for export before the announcement based on "rigorous case-by-case assessments" has not yet been delivered. If the agreed turnaround is taken literally, it could force Germany's caretaker government to cancel these exports for good. Which could, in turn, lead German arms manufactures to sue for damages, as Matthias Wachter warns. Wachter, who heads the Federation of German Industries' (BDI) department for Security and Raw Materials, says "the government has legally approved the exports and that is what matters to companies." But in principle, Wachter says, he understands this ban on arms exports to conflict states. The UN has identified conflict as the "root cause" of Yemen's crises. More than 10,000 people have been killed since the conflict erupted in 2014 when Shiite Houthi rebels launched a campaign to capture the capital, Sanaa. In March 2015, a Saudi-led coalition launched a deadly campaign against the rebels, one that has been widely criticized by human rights groups for its high civilian death toll. The conflict has prevented humanitarian aid from reaching large parts of the civilian population, resulting in 60 percent of the country's 28 million people being classified as "food insecure." At least 2.2 million children are acutely malnourished, according to the UN World Food Program. UN chief Antonio Guterres has urged the Security Council to pressure warring parties to allow aid in. More than 2 million people have been displaced by conflict, including marginalized communities such as the "Muhammasheen," a minority tribe that originally migrated from Africa. Despite the civil war, many flee conflict in Somalia and head to Yemen, marking the convergence of two major migration crises in the Middle East nation. Yemen hosts more than 255,000 Somali refugees, according to UNHCR. In October, the number of suspected cholera cases exceeded more than 750,000, the WHO said. At least 2,135 people have died from the waterborne bacterial infection in Yemen this year. Although cholera can be easily treated, if left untreated, it can kill within hours. The International Committee of the Red Cross has warned that cholera cases could hit 1 million before the end of the year. In Yemen, violence goes beyond civil conflict: It is considered a strategic front in the war on terrorism. The country serves as the operational base for al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, dubbed the "most dangerous" terrorist group before the rise of the "Islamic State." The US routinely uses drones to target al-Qaida leadership. However, civilians have often been killed in the operations. In a country paralyzed by conflict, children are one of the most at-risk groups in Yemen. More than 11 million children require humanitarian aid, according to the UN humanitarian coordination agency. The country's education system is "on the brink of collapse," while children are dying of "preventable causes like malnutrition, diarrhea and respiratory tract infections," the agency said in October. Despite several attempts at UN-backed peace talks, the conflict continues to rage on. Saudi Arabia has vowed to continue supporting the internationally recognized government of Yemeni President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi. On the other hand, Houthi rebels have demanded the formation of a unity government in order to move forward on a political solution. But neither side appears ready to compromise. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Continuing mystery over export ban clause The more time political figures in Berlin spend trying to analyze the exact meaning of the arms ban clause, the more confused they become. Agnieszka Brugger, a Green party member of the Bundestag and expert on security issues, wonders what exactly the sentence means: "Does it also apply to already approved arms deals?" Either way, Brugger is pleased that in future, no arms will be sold to parties fighting in Yemen. "That was one of the big concessions the Greens won in exploratory talks over a four-party coalition with the CDU, CSU and liberal FDP party." Rolf Mützenich, foreign policy spokesperson for the SPD Among members of the CDU and CSU, there still seems to be confusion over what this turnaround really means. There is even some resistance to the position within the CDU. Greifswald MP Philipp Amthor of the CDU told German daily newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung that the decision "threatens the existence of Wolgast shipyard, which produces patrol boats for Saudi Arabia." On the other hand, for Rolf Mützenich, MP for the Social Democrats and the party spokesperson for foreign affairs, things couldn't be clearer. "The message has been received in Wolgast." Mützenich was the one who insisted on the export turnaround in talks with the CDU/CSU. "It was hard work," he admits. Mützenich is adamant that the clause is unequivocal and that it has Angela Merkel's consent. And now, he stresses, all pending arms exports must be canceled.