British Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday said a parliamentary vote on her draft Brexit deal would take place in mid-January. "I can confirm today that we intend to return to the 'meaningful vote' debate in the week commencing 7th January and hold the vote following week," May said. During her address to the lower house of parliament, May sought to outline alterations to the so-called "backstop" that has proven particularly unpopular with euroskeptics in her Conservative Party. May said that the EU had agreed last week to try to arrange an alternative to the backstop by late 2020, and had pledged that if it were to be activated, then it would only be a temporary step. May had promised to seek "legal assurances" from the EU regarding the backstop, after advice from her own attorney general found that if activated, it could endure indefinitely unless the EU agreed to halt the deal. The backstop states that, barring a better agreement before the planned initiation date of 2021, the UK would remain in regulatory alignment with the EU's customs union until a permanent solution to the issue was found. May also dismissed a second referendum,  dubbed a "People's Vote" by some supporters, saying it would do "irreparable damage" to the UK and was "not in the national interest." Read more: No Brexit renegotiation, Germany's Angela Merkel tells Bundestag After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2 issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary Davis. They resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. The Chequers proposal did not go down well either with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, where he captioned a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft was widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. Author: Alexander Pearson 'Before Christmas recess' But several lawmakers, including some within the Conservative Party, criticized May's decision to delay the vote until January, saying it should instead take place "before Christmas recess." "The House (of Commons) must get on with the vote and move on to consider the realistic alternatives," said Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn. "There can be no logical reason for this delay, except that, in taking shambolic government to a new level, the prime minister no longer has the back of her cabinet." Conservative lawmaker Justine Greening accused May of stifling debate by criticizing MPs who have sought out other Brexit options, whether a second referendum or another model for relations with the EU: "She now isn't just not listening - she is not allowing debate. This is totally unacceptable." May delayed a parliamentary vote on her draft deal after realizing that she would not have enough votes to get it through. Some opposition lawmakers accused May on Monday of running down the clock to ensure her deal would be the only option besides crashing out in a no-deal Brexit. Corbyn submitted a motion of no confidence in May for her refusal to move the parliamentary vote forward. However, the motion is largely symbolic and has no bearing on the government, which can even refuse to give the motion time for debate or a vote. Read more: Brexit deal: What Germany wants, what Theresa May can get Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. ls/msh (AP, AFP, Reuters)