The British government on Tuesday announced it would bolster preparations for a no-deal Brexit a day after Prime Minister Theresa May set a tentative date for her draft withdrawal deal. "With just over three months until our exit from the European Union, we have now reached the point where we need to ramp up these preparations," said May's spokesman. "This means we will now set in motion the remaining element of our no-deal plans." Part of the preparation includes putting 3,500 British troops on standby to prevent public order from deteriorating and to assist in the potential chaos of a no-deal Brexit, said British Defense Minister Gavin Williamson. After the meeting, Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay said preparing for a no-deal Brexit needs to be "much more of a priority for businesses up and down the country." Over the coming days, businesses are expected to receive emails with resources to prepare them in the event the UK crashes of the EU. Amber Rudd, work and pensions secretary and a close ally of May's, sought to stress that the preparations were a precaution in case the provisional deal between the EU and UK did not get through Britain's Parliament. "Just because you put a seatbelt on doesn't mean you should crash the car," Rudd said. Read more: No Brexit renegotiation, Angela Merkel tells Bundestag Businesses floundering The British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) said that business investment this year had fallen sharply due to uncertainty about Brexit, predicting 2019 economic growth of 0.1 percent of GDP, down from a previous forecast of 1.2 percent. "The lack of certainty over the UK's future relationship with the EU has led to many firms hitting the pause button on their growth," said BCC director-general Adam Marshall. "With just over 100 days to go until the UK leaves the EU and no clear road ahead, businesses are having to take action, delaying or pulling hiring and investment plans and, in some cases, moving operations elsewhere in order to maintain hard-won supply chains." Read more: Opinion: Britain, you haven't got time Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AANo Dead deal? May is under pressure from British lawmakers to move up the vote on her draft Brexit deal from mid-January to before the holiday recess. She angered MPs last week when she postponed a vote on her draft deal after she realized she would not have enough votes to push it through parliament. MPs, including some within her party, have accused her of stifling debate about other options, most notably a second referendum. On Tuesday, 53 business leaders described May's deal as dead and urged her to take it to a public referendum, according to British media. "If parliament cannot agree on any form of Brexit urgently, we, as entrepreneurs writing in a personal capacity, call on the prime minister to take her deal to the British people," wrote the business leaders, who included Richard Sykes, who chairs the Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Alex Chesterman, who founded property search engine Zoopla, among others. May has been trying to portray the choice as one between her government's agreement with Brussels and leaving with no arrangement at the end of March. Analysts believe she hopes that opposition MPs — almost all of whom fervently oppose a no-deal exit — might eventually support her government's position as the lesser of two evils. So far, though, none have indicated a willingness to do so. Read more: 'Scotland wants to trade as freely as possible with Europe' Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2 issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary Davis. They resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. The Chequers proposal did not go down well either with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, where he captioned a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft was widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. Author: Alexander Pearson ls/msh (AP, Reuters, dpa)