US lawmakers failed to agree on a spending bill on Friday before the Senate and House of Representatives adjourned for the evening, leading to a partial government shutdown. Funding for dozens of federal agencies ceased on Saturday. It is unclear how long the shutdown will last. However, the shutdown means hundreds of thousands of public servants will be forced to take unpaid leave or to work without pay in the run-up to Christmas. They will receive pay for their work when a new spending bill is eventually passed. Lawmakers in the House of Representatives and the Senate, both of which are controlled by the Republican Party, were unable to agree on a spending bill that would have enough support in both chambers of the US Congress. Democratic senators, whose support Republicans would need to pass a bill in the Senate, refused to vote in favor for a requested $5 billion (€4.4 billion) for US President Donald Trump's proposed Mexican border wall. Trump said he was "totally prepared for a very long shutdown" as he blamed Democrats for stonewalling the House measure, which provides funding for a border wall. In a video message on Twitter, Trump blamed Democrats for the shutdown, saying "there's nothing we can do about that because we need the Democrats to give us their votes."  Trump added, "The shutdown hopefully will not last long." The White House budget chief had instructed agencies "to execute plans for an orderly shutdown." Shutdown blame game Talks on how to fund the US government will continue on Saturday afternoon. Earlier this month Trump said in a heated exchange with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer at the White House that he would be "proud” and "own" a government shutdown. Schumer pointed out Friday that Trump had admitted he would be responsible for the shutdown. "You're not getting the wall today, next week or on January third when Democrats take control of the House," he said. Limited shutdown A federal shutdown will impact about 800,000 of 2.1 million federal workers. Around 380,000 workers would be put on unpaid leave. About 420,000 federal employees, including law enforcement and border protection, would continue to work but wouldn't be paid until a spending bill passes. Departments that would be impacted include Homeland Security, Transport, Commerce, State, Agriculture, Interior, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development. A number of agencies, including the Defense Department, Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Health and Human Services would not shut down because they have been funded through the fiscal year, which ends in September 2019. This is the third government shutdown so far in 2018. Appointing by Trump's predecessor Barack Obama in 2015, McGurk was the US envoy to the coalition fighting "Islamic State" terrorists and was influential in shaping US policy in northern Syria. He was due to end his tenure in Feburary 2019, but stepped down days after Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, largely due to Trump's sudden decision to take US soldiers out of Syria. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis abruptly announced his retirement in late December after Trump ignored his advice and announced the complete withdrawal of US troops from Syria. His resignation letter laid bare the growing divide between them, criticizing his boss for his treatment of allies. Mattis was a keen supporter of NATO and traditional US alliances, putting him at odds with Trump. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke resigned in December as pressure mounted from more than a dozen investigations into various aspects of his tenure and private business. The former Navy SEAL was a leading advocate for expanding domestic energy production, opening up vast swathes of the country for exploration. In December, Trump announced that John Kelly, his third chief of staff, would step down at the end of 2018. He was bought in to establish order in the Trump White House but found the job arduous and his relationship with his boss soured. The retired four-star Marine Corps general will be replaced by budget director Mick Mulvaney, after several candidates turned down the job. Attorney General Jeff Sessions was fired in November after several months of abuse from Trump. Despite being an early supporter, he attracted the wrath of his boss early on by recusing himself from the Justice Department investigation into collusion. He was replaced with a loyalist who shares Trump's concerns about the investigation. He was a key figure in rolling back many of Obama's legacies. United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley, one of the administration's few high profile women, announced her resignation in October. She said her resignation was long-planned, but the announcement took most senior politicians by surprise. She will stay on until the end of 2018. She lent international legitimacy to the administration as she attempted to provide a coherent message. The White House director of legislative affairs announced he will leave his post effective July 20. Short, one of the administration's longest-serving members, was also one of its most visible, pushing Trump's legislative agenda on TV. His work, however, was frequently undercut by the POTUS, who complained about deals the team had negotiated, preferring instead to go it alone without them. It remained a mystery to many how Pruitt could hang on for so long, but the president seemed to like him. Many on the left cringed at his every move as head of the Environmental Protection Agency. He was also embroiled in various ethics scandals. Nevertheless, Trump took to Twitter to thank Pruitt for doing an "outstanding job" at the EPA. One of Trump's top lawyers in the ongoing special counsel investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 presidential election, Cobb said he simply wanted to retire. But many believe he was forced out by Trump and others in his legal team for his lack of aggression in Robert Mueller's Russia probe. Cobb was said to have been increasing uneasy about Trump's Twitter attacks on Mueller. White House Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert, who had worked for George W. Bush, was reportedly pushed out of his post in the shake up that occurred after John Bolton replaced H.R. McMaster as national security adviser. It is said that Bolton had no issues with Bossert, but that he wanted his own team in place. The White House thanked him for his "patriotic service" and wished him well. Though the White House said Shulkin resigned, he says he was fired. A holdover from the Obama administration, he was appointed to run the Department of Veteran's Affairs by Trump. His downfall came amid a travel expense scandal involving his wife. He criticized the atmosphere in the administration as "toxic, chaotic, disrespectful and subversive," claiming he was the victim of political intrigue. In a tweet on March 22, US President Trump announced he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton as his national security adviser. A respected general, McMaster said he would retire from the US army and public service. McMaster's departure was not a complete surprise, as he and Trump are reported to have had conflicting views on a number of US policies. A former Exxon executive, Tillerson had served as secretary of state for a little over a year. Donald Trump ousted Tillerson in order to form a "new team" ahead of talks with North Korea, adding that he and Tillerson "disagreed on things." The relationship between them is said to have deteriorated after Tillerson reportedly called Trump a "moron" in October 2017. A Goldman Sachs veteran, Gary Cohn served as Donald Trump's top economic adviser at the head of the National Economic Council. He helped push through controversial tax reforms in 2017. However, Cohn stepped down in March 2018 after failing to persuade Trump to give up his idea of imposing tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Hope Hicks resigned from her post as the White House Communications Director in late February 2018. A day before resigning, she testified before US lawmakers on Russian interference. She admitted to telling "white lies" for Donald Trump, but not related to Russia. The White House insisted her resignation was not linked to the testimony. The 29-year-old was among Trump's closest aides. The White House staff secretary handed in his resignation after his ex-wives accused him of domestic abuse. Despite resigning, Rob Porter denied the allegations as "simply false." Trump initially defended Porter, and the US media questioned how Porter passed his background check for the job. Recently, reports surfaced of a romance between Porter and Trump's longtime aide Hope Hicks. He played a key role in getting Donald Trump into the White House, but even chief strategist Stephen Bannon was ousted within a year. Bannon was a champion of economic nationalism and Trump's "America First" strategy. After the fallout of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville mid-August, Bannon agreed to leave the administration. The 53-year-old former hedge fund investor nicknamed the "Mooch" was communications director for just 10 days. The colorful New Yorker filled a dream role that had been vacant for months, but was forced out on the same day that straight-shooting former Marine Corps general John Kelly became chief of staff. Trump was displeased with his infamous expletive-laden rant against other senior staff. Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, resigned in July 2017 after clashing with the White House over Trump's complicated financial holdings. Shaub reportedly called Trump's administration a "laughing stock." Reince Priebus, the former White House chief-of-staff, was forced out just six months into his tenure after a public feud with Anthony Scaramucci, the White House communications director. Priebus was reportedly among those West Wing staffers who opposed the hire of Scaramucci. Sean Spicer, who had a fraught relationship with the president and the press, resigned after telling Trump he vehemently disagreed with the selection of Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director. Michael Dubke, the former White House communications director, was asked to leave in May 2017 over what was perceived as his poor handling of the allegations about Russian involvement in the US election. US President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey — allegedly over how he handled the Clinton emails investigation. Critics, however, believe the FBI's probe into Trump's campaign ties with Russia was the real reason. Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in February 2017 after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office, and then misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations. aw, cw/sms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here.