French authorities on Sunday served preliminary terrorism charges against a suspected jihadi accused of helping to organize the terrorist shooting at the Paris headquarters of the magazine Charlie Hebdo. Peter Cherif arrived in the French capital earlier in the day after being arrested in Djibouti in North Africa on December 16 and deported. The Paris prosecutor's office said Cherif was charged upon his arrival at Paris' Charles de Gaulle Airport. Authorities say he played a crucial role in the attack in January 2015, which killed 12 people at the magazine's offices, as well as a police officer. Read more: Strasbourg attack: Suspected accomplices arrested and charged Cherif boarded an Air France plane from Djibouti to Paris after being arrested earlier this month Praise of cooperation Cherif, also known as Abu Hamza, was a close friend of Cherif and Said Kouachithe, two brothers who carried out the atrocity. He is accused of criminal association with a terrorist enterprise. French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner tweeted that Cherif had evaded French justice and that his detention in France was the result of the "efficiency of our security services and the international communication that permitted his arrest." Read more: Why French police officers keep committing suicide Cherif had traveled to Iraq and Syria in the early 2000s and had been on the run from French authorities since 2011. A day after the Charlie Hebdo attack, a policewoman was killed just outside Paris, while another gunman took hostages at a Jewish supermarket, four of whom were killed. All the attackers were killed in separate shootouts with police. Read more: Is France's deradicalization strategy missing the point? A gunman opened fire at a Christmas market in the eastern city of Strasbourg, home to the European Parliament. At least two people were killed and 12 injured. Prosecutors opened a terror investigation. France immediately raised its national security alert to its highest level in anticipation of copycat attacks. A man wielding a knife attacks bystanders in a central neighborhood in Paris, killing one person and wounding another four. French prosecutors open a terror probe into the attack, citing witness accounts that the assailant shouted "Allahu akbar" ("God is greatest"). The militant "Islamic State" (IS) group claims responsibility for the attack, calling the knifeman one of their "soldiers." An attacker claiming allegiance to IS perpetrates a string of violent crimes in the southern town of Trebes during the morning hours. He kills a man while stealing a car and then fires shots at police officers before entering a Super U grocery store, where he takes hostages. Police shoot dead the attacker. Four people are killed, including including policeman Arnaud Beltrame. A man fatally stabs two women at the Marseille train station. The perpetrator, Ahmed Hanachi, is shot dead by police on patrol. IS claims responsibility for the attack in a post by its news agency Amaq. In it, they call Hanachi one of the group's "soldiers." Two Interior Ministry officials resign after it is revealed that Hanachi was an undocumented immigrant who they had failed to detain. A gunman opens fire on police on the Champs-Elysees, Paris' most iconic boulevard. One police officer is killed and two individuals are injured before police shoot the gunman dead. A note praising IS is found next to the gunman's body. The terrorist group also claims responsibility. The attack occurs just days before the first round of the French presidential election. Security is tightened. Soldiers shoot and severely injure a knife-wielding man outside the Louvre museum in Paris after he assails them. One soldier is lightly injured. The attacker had two further machetes in his backpack. A subsequent investigation reveals the Egyptian national had traveled to France from Dubai on a valid tourist visa. A Twitter account associated with the man's name refers to IS in posts. Two teens enter a church in Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, Normandy and slit the throat of an 85-year-old priest in front of five parishioners. Police shoot the 19-year-olds dead as they try to leave. IS takes responsibility and publishes a video of the teens pledging allegiance to the group. Many French Muslims attend the next Sunday's Mass to show solidarity with Catholics and condemn the attack. On Bastille Day, France's national holiday, a truck drives through crowds in Nice that had gathered to watch the fireworks on a major seaside promenade. Before being shot dead by police, the driver kills 86 and injuries more than 400 others. IS claims responsibility, stating that the attacker had responded to IS calls to target civilians living in coalition nations fighting IS in Syria and Iraq. France's most deadly terror attack: IS jihadis armed with automatic weapons and explosives undertake coordinated attacks in Paris including at the Bataclan concert hall, the national stadium and various street cafes. The mass shootings and suicide bombings kill 130 people, injuring hundreds more. IS claims responsibility. Then-President Francois Hollande calls it an act of war by IS. A deadly attack is averted: On a high-speed train from Amsterdam to Paris, a man opens fire with an assault rifle that subsequently jams. Other train passengers tackle the man, preventing deadly violence. Four are injured including the attacker. The assailant had been known to French security officials for past drug-related activities and statements in defense of radical Islamist violence. Yassin Salhi beheads his boss and displays the head, along with two Islamic flags, on the gate outside a gas plant near Lyon. He also tries to blow up the factory by driving his van into the gas cylinders. The attempt fails, but unleashes a smaller explosion, injuring two. French authorities claim links between the man and IS. He commits suicide in prison. Two men with automatic guns storm the offices of satire magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 12 and wounding 12 others. A different gunman kills a police officer the next day, then four more during a hostage-taking on January 9 at a kosher grocery. Police eventually shoot all three gunmen dead, but not before they claim allegiance to IS and al-Qaida. Author: Cristina Burack Trial request for 14 suspects On Friday, French prosecutors filed a request for 14 people to stand before a jury for their suspected involvement in the attacks. It will be up to anti-terrorist judges to decide whether all 14 are tried. Those likely to face trial are accused of "complicity" in assisting the attackers, including providing them with weapons. Authorities said the attackers had claimed allegiance to al-Qaida and the "Islamic State" militant group. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ABWv mm/tj (AFP, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.