The German government agreed on Monday to provide additional funding to cities, in an effort to tackle air pollution linked to diesel vehicle emissions. The decision came after a meeting dubbed the "diesel summit" between Chancellor Angela Merkel and representatives from cities and municipalities. German cities are currently facing court-imposed bans on older diesel-powered vehicles. This stemmed from legal action taken by environmentalists to enforce EU regulations on air quality. To address the issue, the German government established the "Cleaner Air" program, in place from 2017 to 2020, to cut emissions from municipal vehicles. The German automotive sector is also making a financial contribution. Half a billion in fresh funds The funding agreed to in Monday's summit will increase the "Cleaner Air" program from €1 billion to 1.5 billion ($1.7 billion). An additional €432 million will be allocated to retro-fitting smaller trucks. Read more: Older German diesels face reckoning The EU's air quality directive mandates an annual average limit of 40 micrograms nitrogen dioxide per cubic meter. In 2017, 65 towns and cities had exceeded the 40 microgram limit, with 15 of them registering 50 micrograms of the toxic gas. Merkel said after the meeting that her government's support programs should make it possible for cities to come within the limit "in a very short time." Read more: Opinion: Germany's courts take the wheel on diesel bans Retro-fitting unresolved Municipalities have asked the government to implement hardware retro-fits to help clean up older diesel cars, a process that would require fitting more effective exhaust filters in the vehicles. But Merkel's government made no concrete proposals on the issue during Monday's meeting. Retro-fitting diesels remains a thorny issue, particularly over who will foot the large bill. Cities and environmental groups are demanding that the automotive industry be the one to take on the major share of the burden. Read more: Opinion: The war on automobiles is a war on freedom The Mayor of the city of Mainz Michael Ebling told AFP that, in the wake of the diesel scandal, "the federal government is not coming off the defensive" and called for the auto industry to "pay up." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37wu1 A long road ahead German Transport Minister Andreas Scheuer said his ministry would present guidelines on manufacturing improvements by the end of 2018. Scheuer added that following the release of those guidelines, it would take some six more months to develop hardware retro-fits. These improvements would then need to be approved by the Federal Motor Transport Authority. In the meantime, Merkel told municipalities that talks would continue, with another meeting set to be scheduled before the parliamentary summer break next year. The debate over air quality in German cities and its link to diesel cars began in 2015, when German automaker Volkswagen admitted it had installed software that cheated emissions tests in diesel vehicles. jcg/jm (AFP, dpa) Cities all over the world are fighting against smog. A German court has ruled that cities are allowed to impose driving bans. Many German cities — including Stuttgart, shown here — have developed an air pollution problem and are debating how best to approach the problem. A diesel ban is imposed in the Norwegian capital whenever air pollution levels rise above a prescribed limit. The ban went into effect for the first time on January 17, 2017. Ambulances and other public service vehicles running on diesel are exempt from the measure. The city plans to reduce even more cars by eliminating municipal parking spaces in the center starting in 2019. Starting in 2024, the French capital will ban diesel vehicles; in 2030 it intends to expand the ban to gas-powered cars. Vehicles manufactured before 1997 are already prohibited in the city on weekdays. When air pollution levels exceed prescribed limits, Parisians have to follow a rotation system in which only cars with either even- or odd-numbered plates are allowed to be driven in the city. If you want to drive into the center of London, a day's ride through the city will cost you 10 pounds ($13.80, €11.20). London introduced the congestion charge in 2003. Automatic number plate recognition is used to enforce the measures. Anyone who does not pay the fee faces a heavy fine of up to 240 pounds. Copenhagen's mayor, Frank Jensen, wants to prevent new diesel cars from entering the city starting in 2019. Currently, over 300 kilometers of roads in the Danish capital can only be used by cyclists. With the new regulations, cycling will become easier, more convenient and cheaper than driving a car. About half of Copenhageners now cycle to work. Car-free zones like the square in front of Madrid's Teatro Real are set to become a common sight in the city. Almost the entire center of the Spanish capital will be turned into pedestrian zones in the next five years. Madrid has high smog levels, due to being surrounded by mountains, which cause bad air to get trapped in the city. Riding public transport will become even easier in the near future in Helsinki. In the next ten years, a mobility on demand system will be developed to include all forms of public transport in one app, including buses, self-driving cars and minibuses with flexible routes. The goal of the app is to be so good that no one will want to own a car. Smog chokes Delhi and levels of air pollution regularly go off the scale. Electric rickshaws will hopefully alleviate the problem. By 2030, all new vehicles will be electrically powered and the city will phase out gas powered vehicles. Author: Stella Braun Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.