Thirteen miners, including 12 Poles and one Czech, were killed in a methane blast more than 800 meters (875 yards) underground late on Thursday. The explosion devastated areas of the CSM hard coal mine near the town of Karvina, which is located 300 kilometers (200 miles) east of Prague, according to the state-run OKD mining company, which operates the mine. A network of methane sensors deployed in the mine had not detected anything unusual prior to the blast, OKD managing director Boleslav Kowalczyk said. Worst mining disaster "The blast at the CSM mine is a huge tragedy," tweeted Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis. He will travel to the site later today along with his Polish counterpart Mateusz Morawiecki. "I wish to express words of deepest sympathy to all the close victims of the mining disaster in Karvina," Morawiecki said. "This is a huge tragedy for all Poles and Czechs." Polish President Andrzej Duda declared Sunday a day of national mourning. He expressed his condolences on Twitter, saying "O Lord, keep the families of the miners in your care. RIP." The accident is the worst mining disaster in the Czech Republic since 1990, when 30 miners died in a fire at a mine in the same region. Zero visibility The deceased Polish miners were from the Poland-based Alpex mining company. "We're one big family, it's a terrible tragedy," a Czech miner told the local Polar TV. Czech media reported on Friday that the fire had not been put out yet. OKD managing director Boleslav Kowalczyk said the search of the scene had had to be abandoned due to conditions in the shaft. "Unfortunately, we have reached a point where it was impossible to move forward, because there was a fire raging and zero visibility," he said. One day before COP23, thousands of anti-coal mining activists gathered to urge a complete phase out of coal for use in power stations. The protesters, dressed with in protective white suits, walked for about 10 kilometers — from a nearby village to the Hambach coal mine. Hambach is the largest CO2 emitter in Europe. Its expansion has already partially cleared out a 1,000-year-old forest and left several ghost villages behind — with more to come. Activists believe the climate talks going on in Bonn, only 50 kilometers away, are a complete nonsense while the mine keeps running. Despite a heavy police presence, the mood for Sunday's protest was very peaceful. The protagonists waved colourful banners and wore painted faces. Some brought guitars and played music - at least during the first part of the day. As protesters approached the mine, police officers moved in and began blocking the march. With loud speakers, they warned the demostrators that they were trepassing on private property and they posed a risk to security. As the drew closer to the mine, the long line of demonstrators suddenly burst into life, with many people running and shouting, forgetting the many kilometers they had already walked. Activists said that blocking this type of coal infrastructure was the best way to make their voices heard for an immediate transition away from coal. And yes, at least for a while, the giant digger stopped operating. The hundreds of activists who made it to the coal mine hailed the stoppage as a great success. Anti-coal activists say no other place in Europe represents the dependence on coal for electricity as well as the Hambach mine. Among the many signs carried by protesters, one of the often repeated ones was: Exit coal, protect the climate. Towards the end of Sunday's march, two more groups who had gotten separated from the main demonstration, joined up with their comrades. Here you can see the police have lined up to prevent their advance. The activists were successful in shutting down parts of the Hambach mine for just a day. But whether politicians will take any long-term measures regarding coal mining during the COP23 climate conference remains to be seen. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz kw/ng (AP, AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.