On May 23, 2017, "Islamic State"-inspired militants stormed Marawi City in southern Philippines, where Racma Mauyag lived with her husband and six children. As the Philippine military battled against the insurgents, Mauyag left the city with her children. While fleeing Marawi, her 18-year-old son, Tampipi, lost his eyesight and was left behind. Later, Mauyag's neighbors showed her a Facebook post that showed that her son was caught in the crossfire and lost his life. For more than a year, Mauyag has been living in a camp, longing for her son. "I want to go back to Marawi to look for my son's body and bury him," Mauyag told DW. But the security situation in Marawi is still volatile. President Rodrigo Duterte, who declared martial law in the entire southern island of Mindanao, is planning to extend emergency measures for another year to crush the Islamist rebellion. "Terrorism is still lurking in the area," military chief Carlito Galvez told media on December 3. The government claims it has the locals' support to extend martial law, but activists say that martial law has only worsened the security situation in Mindanao. Mauyag fears that if authorities extend martial law, she won't be able to return to Marawi anytime soon. Read more:Is Philippines' Marawi free from 'Islamic State' influence? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2dlIr Rights violations "Martial law has allowed the security forces to operate under a culture of impunity. Soldiers and police are violating citizen's rights," Teddy Casiño, a congressman, told DW. Human rights activists and leaders of indigenous communities in Mindanao are being arrested — and even killed — on false charges, Casiño claimed. Last week, more than 70 teachers and students were reportedly detained in Davao del Norte, Mindanao, for participating in a national solidarity mission with indigenous groups. "These are not isolated cases; this is quite normal in Mindanao under Duterte's martial law," Casiño said, adding that there is no need to extend emergency measures in southern Philippines anymore. "Martial law was imposed in response to the [militants'] siege, which is now over. Martial law is not needed to maintain peace and order," Casiño added. Read more: Philippines declares end to battle with Islamist militants in Marawi President Duterte said he would wait for the recommendations from the police and military before asking the Congress to vote on martial law extension. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2sxuQ Impact on Mindanao's economy Zia Alonto Adiong, a lawmaker in the regional Mindanao assembly, told DW he was unsure whether marital law should be prolonged. "On one hand, I have seen how martial law facilitated coordination between the local government and the military in securing our communities. But I worry that its extension will be interpreted as an admission that Mindanao is in a constant state of lawlessness," Adiong said. Adiong is concerned that a possible martial law extension would have a negative impact on Mindanao's economic development. "You cannot separate peace from economic development. If the government extends martial law, the military should engage in a dialogue with the business community to discuss how the government can boost trade and commerce in the region," Adiong added. President Duterte has created a special task force and allocated a budget for Marawi's reconstruction. Read more: Muslim ID proposal sparks anger in Philippines Marawi Mimi Garcia holds the pictures of her son Richard and daughter-in-law Robilyn who were killed by masked vigilantes on motorbikes at their shanty home in Camarin, Caloocan city, on October 7, 2016. She faces the daunting responsibility of taking care of her two grandchildren while being jobless at the same time. Andres Fernandez and his son Wesley rest at an altar inside the family home in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. On October 4, 2016, two armed men in masks went inside the Fernandez home and pointed a gun at Wesley. They made him kneel as Andres tried to help. They responded by shooting at Andres first before killing Wesley. One of the children of alleged pusher Kenneth Trasmano lights a candle during the wake of his father in Manila. Kenneth was killed in a police undercover operation after allegedly fighting back on February 2, 2018. His family and neighbors claim the police forced them to leave their homes and get out of sight, and thereafter heard the gunshots. A child holds the pictures of her deceased father Joseph and grandfather Marcelo. Marcelo was killed in a police operation inside their home on July 22, 2016. Her father was rounded up and taken by the police. His lifeless body was later found "salvaged" along a roadside. The picture shows letters written by children who have lost either one of their parents in the drug war, as part of their counselling session at Our Lady of Lourdes Parish in Camarin, Caloocan city. Family and friends walk the funeral procession of Rogelio Gilbuena and his common law wife Jenny Royo, who were both found dead (several hours apart) in different locations in Navotas city, Manila. Prior to their death, the couple were taken from their house in Navotas by 10 men who introduced themselves as police. Families of victims of drug-related extrajudicial killings offer flowers to their departed loved ones during the Holy Eucharistic Mass Action in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. Her husband Luis and her son, Gabriel, were killed in September 2016. During their burial, she was stoic. The days after she had laid them to rest were different. "I began looking for them and could not stop crying." MA nowadays attends protest rallies calling for a stop to drug-related killings and justice for those who have died. She hides her face as she dosn't want to be identified. Author: Raffy Lerma (Manila), Ana P. Santos (Manila), Rodion Ebbighausen