Italy's economy ministry announced on Tuesday that an informal agreement had been reached with the European Commission over its budget plan. The move would mark the end of a standoff between Italy and the EU over its debt. "Great satisfaction for the result achieved," Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini said in a brief statement. Salvini did not provide any details of the deal. The agreement is expected to be made formal when it gains the approval of officials in Brussels on Wednesday, a spokeswoman of Italy's economy ministry said. Read more: Italy's economic plight, and why it matters Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte urged caution, saying that "it is necessary to wait for the procedure to be completed in order to consider the negotiation definitively concluded."  He is expected to address the Italian parliament on Wednesday, his office said. Conte  announced last week that Italy was ready to reduce its 2019 deficit from 2.4 to 2.04 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) after a meeting with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker. Clashing with the EU Italy's new government, comprised of the far-right Lega party and the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, had sought to implement sweeping budget measures that included cutting taxes and establishing universal income. Read more: Italy between debt and utopian dreams With the proposal Italy was expected to breach EU budget deficit limits, risking punitive action from the bloc. But Rome had staunchly defended the proposal, argued that the new budget would "change Italy" and that it would enabling the government to handle its debt, due to higher economic growth. The clash with Brussels had worried investors, raised Italy's borrowing costs and depressed bank stocks. jcg/aw (Reuters/dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3A0YO Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.