Police used tear gas and fired in the air on Tuesday to disperse thousands of protesters as they threatened to march on the presidential palace to demand the ouster of President Omar al-Bashir, who has been in power since 1989. The protesters sang patriotic songs and chanted "freedom," ''peaceful, peaceful against the thieves" and "The people want to bring down the regime" as they attempted to march on al-Bashir's palace on the bank of the Blue Nile in the heart of Khartoum. Organizers said they intended to hand in to the presidency a memo calling for al-Bashir to step down immediately. The march follows nearly a week of protests initially sparked by the government's decision to triple the price of bread. The protesters are also enraged over shortages of basic goods and a cash crisis. Lethal force Official estimates say eight protesters have been killed in the demonstrations, but rights group Amnesty International has put the death toll at 37. "With further protests planned tomorrow (Tuesday), the fact that the security forces are using lethal force so indiscriminately against unarmed protesters is extremely troubling," Sarah Jackson, Amnesty International's deputy director for East Africa, the Great Lakes and the Horn, said in a statement on Monday. In a joint statement late Monday, the United States, Britain, Norway and Canada expressed concern at "credible reports" that Sudan's security forces have used live ammunition against demonstrators. They urged all parties to avoid violence or the destruction of property while affirming the right of the Sudanese people to peacefully protest to express their "legitimate grievances." The protesters planned to hand the presidency a memo calling for President al-Bashir to step down. 'Real reforms'? Al-Bashir, who seized power 29 years ago after overthrowing an elected government, sought to pacify the protesters on Monday by pledging "real reforms" to solve Sudan's economic woes. He also warned citizens against what he called "rumor mongers." Read more: Opinion: Al-Bashir debunks myth of Africa's democratization Since the demonstrations started spreading on Wednesday, authorities have closed schools and declared states of emergency and curfews in several states. More than a dozen opposition leaders have been arrested amid a near-total news blackout on the protests and tighter than usual censorship of newspapers. Al-Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for committing crimes against humanity and genocide in the western Darfur region, is seeking a new term in office, with his party loyalists campaigning for constitutional amendments that would allow him to run in the 2020 election. ap/jm (AP, AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. For decades, what is now the Republic of South Sudan was officially part of the Republic of Sudan. The first secession war dates back to 1955, even before British colonialists handed over duties to the new government in Khartoum, with Christian South Sudanese fighting for more independence from the Arab north. From 1972 to 1983, South Sudan enjoyed relative peace and autonomy before falling back into civil war. The Sudan People's Liberation Movement and Army (SPLM/A) took up the fight, led by John Garang. The group later splintered, with Salva Kiir and Riek Machar holding leading positions in different factions. In a January 2011 referendum, the South Sudanese people voted for independence. Salva Kiir and Riek Machar were named president and vice president respectively. The new state was based largely on a peace deal struck in 2005 under the auspices of Garang, who died in a helicopter crash weeks after the deal. The alliance between the enemies-turned-colleagues didn't last long. In July 2013, two years after independence, Kiir dismissed Riek Machar and all other cabinet members. In December, he donned his military uniform for effect when addressing the media, accusing Machar and his allies of attempting a coup. It was the beginning of a civil war that continues to this day. At least 50,000 people have died in the conflict, despite various attempts at ending it on different levels. 2.4 million people have been forced from their homes. In May 2014, the 14,000-strong UN mission to South Sudan was restructured to focus on the protection of civilians. Building the state no longer seemed a realistic goal to pursue. Also in May 2015, a meeting of Kiir (far left) and Machar (far right) in Addis Ababa resulted in a ceasefire agreement that sparked hope for peace. Those hopes evaporated when new fighting erupted hours later. Subsequent agreements would be just as short-lived. Not only did the two leaders fail to agree, but observers commented they had long ago lost control over their respective fighters. The latest peace agreement, signed in August 2015, had a rocky start. President Salva Kiir at first refused to sign but finally gave in to international pressure. Part of the deal was to guarantee Machar's return from his exile in Ethiopia. But there has been quarrelling over the number of fighters and weapons that could accompany him to Juba. Meanwhile, the conflict has left the country in ruins. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Said Raad al-Hussein, says in a report that both government troops and rebels use rape as a means of terror and warfare. The UN Security Council has decided to put in place a commission to investigate the violence. Author: Philipp Sandner