Dear Britain, Really? Do you really have time for this? As things stand, you will be crashing out of the European Union without a deal in place in a matter of weeks. Whatever the pro-Brexit hard-liners may say to the contrary, that would be catastrophic. Unless your MPs pass a law on the divorce deal or suspend Article 50, you will face a hard Brexit. So why are you wasting such valuable time on internal party politics? Had the prime minister lost a no-confidence vote, finding a new leader could have taken up to six weeks. And you only have 14 weeks to go until March 29. Then it is D-Day for Brexit. The choice of words there is not merely coincidental. I was just trying to speak to you in the only language some of you seem to understand. "The UK changed Prime Minister in May 1940 — in the middle of a monstrously greater national crisis than this. If it has to be done, it has to be done," tweeted Brexiteer MP Bernard Jenkin after the vote was announced. But these are different times. This is not 1940. This is not World War II. We have been at peace for over 70 years, thanks to carefully constructed European unity. The potential disaster is of your own making. So why the change now? Why tear yet further at the threadbare fabric of a fragmented country? Is it possible to kick the can down the street whilst dragging your feet? That's what you seem to have been doing these past two years. And, yes, Theresa May must take plenty of the blame for that. The unnecessary snap election in 2017 meant precious months that could have been spent working hard on a deal were wasted on campaigning. And ended in an even more fragile government. She presented an initial draft, the so-called Chequers agreement, that led to a raft of high-profile resignations. But time finally ran out after taking an age to make progress on a draft deal and then delaying the vote on it. It seems ironic that it wasn't until her defiant stand on the morning of the confidence vote that May finally struck the right chord. Changing leaders could have "put our country's future at risk and create uncertainty when we can least afford it," she claimed. And she is right. Parliament goes into Christmas recess in just seven days. What could a new leader possibly have got done before Brexit? Do the maths. There would be no change to the makeup of Parliament. The government still wouldn't have a majority. There would be the same number of MPs sitting, the majority of whom voted to remain in the EU. The question of the Irish backstop would not change with a more fervent Brexiteer at the helm. The Good Friday agreement and the EU both insist on there being no hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic. If there were time to sort that out, it would have been done already. So what are your realistic options? Another general election? No time. Another referendum on Brexit? No time. A Canada/Norway/Switzerland-style deal with the EU? Do you know how long it took to reach those agreements? And therein lies the problem. Even with all the time in the world, it couldn't be done. The 48-plus rebels who brought about the leadership challenge are flying in the face of reality if they think a new leader could force a different Brexit deal outcome. There will be no other outcome. Enough is enough, Europe has said. The next EU summit is on Thursday, and there will be no more time for renegotiation. The clock is ticking, yet you seem unable to hear. Perhaps it is highly symbolic that the bells of the UK Parliament's famous Big Ben are currently silent. The clock hands were removed in April for maintenance work set to last three years. The repair job on the country could take a lot longer. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2 issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary Davis. They resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. The Chequers proposal did not go down well either with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, where he captioned a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft was widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. Author: Alexander Pearson Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.