A court in Tokyo on Sunday extended the detention of Nissan's ex-chairman Carlos Ghosn for another 10 days. The Tokyo District Court said the decision would allow prosecutors to further investigate the case, which has triggered international attention. Read more: Who's the man who could bring down Japan's auto industry? Ghosn was arrested on November 19 on suspicion of falsifying the company's securities reports and allegedly understating his personal remuneration by about 5 billion Japanese yen ($44 million, €38.94 million) over a period of five years. Greg Kelly, a former representative director for Nissan, was arrested along with Ghosn and accused of conspiring with him. On Friday, Japan prosecutors rearrested Ghosn over new allegations that in October 2008 he transferred a personal investment loss worth more than 1.8 billion yen ($16.6 million, €14.58 million) to Nissan by manipulating an unspecified "swap" rule. Prosecutors said the move inflicted damages on Japan's flagship car company. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/39p60 According to Japan's state broadcaster NHK, Ghosn also benefited from having his former company transfer a total of $14.7 million (€12.9 million) to another company through his Saudi acquaintance. Read more: Nissan shares tumble after chairman's arrest Ghosn's rise and fall The arrest of Ghosn, who was previously credited with almost single-handedly rescuing one of Japan's flagship car companies and restoring it as a viable global competitor, stunned Japan, where Ghosn was known for his disciplined leadership. Ghosn rescued Nissan from bankruptcy in the late 1990s and was the mastermind behind the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance, a strategic automotive partnership. He also chaired all three companies until recently. The boards of Nissan and Mitsubishi dismissed Ghosn as chairman after his November arrest, but he still holds the position at Renault, though the French carmaker has appointed an interim chairman. Nissan has also been charged as part of the Ghosn affair for allegedly making false statements in annual reports. Nissan Motor chairman Carlos Ghosn was arrested last month for alleged financial misconduct, having led a remarkable turnaround at the Japanese automaker, rescuing it from bankruptcy. An investigation continues into whether he under-reported his salary by 5 billion yen (€39 million $44.5 million) over five years from 2011. Ex-Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned in 2015 in the midst of the Dieselgate scandal. The automaker was found to have lowered the emissions of its diesel-engine cars during environmental tests. VW set aside €27 billion to pay fines, buybacks and compensation Winterkorn has been charged in the US with fraud and conspiracy, but Germany does not allow the extradition of its nationals. In 2007, Siemens chairman Heinrich von Pierer stepped down following a corruption scandal during his time as CEO. During the investigation it emerged that Siemens had created a system of slush funds and fictitious consultancy contracts, while also paying huge bribes, totaling at least €1.3 billion euros to win foreign contracts. Pierer later agreed to pay €5 million in damages to the firm. Once-powerful movie titan, Harvey Weinstein, has been accused by dozens of women of sexual misconduct ranging from harassment to rape. He is out on bail and has pleaded not guilty in New York to six counts reportedly committed against three women. The accusations against him spurred the #MeToo movement, where women worldwide have spoken up against sexual harassment and assault. Sir Martin Sorrell, the founder of the global advertising powerhouse WPP, stepped down in April after 33 years. He denied accusations of personal misconduct and misuse of company assets. The Wall Street Journal alleged Sorrell had paid a sex worker on company expenses, which he responded were “scurrilous and salacious" claims. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick resigned from his position in July 2017 after heavy pressure from several major investors in the San Francisco-based ride-hailing company. Concerns were raised about Kalanick's management style, including allegations of sexual harassment and discrimination. Under his watch, the firm's ruthless reputation has also been criticized by regulators. Author: Nik Martin Author: Nik Martin Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. shs/tj  (AP, Reuters)