The list of former Trump officials is extensive, steadily growing – and includes many names one need not remember. But the name that will be added to the list by the end of February is arguably the most important and most consequential yet: James Mattis. The Pentagon chief announced his impending exit in a two-page letter on Thursday on the heels of President Trump's surprising decision to pull all US forces out of Syria with immediate effect. The letter was striking for two reasons. First, it contained no nicely worded praise for Trump. And second, it made amply clear that Mattis resigned because his view of US foreign and defense policy clashes with that of Trump. Neither is surprising. Mattis was the only cabinet member who openly and consistently resisted to lavish public praise on a needy President Trump in cabinet meetings more reminiscent of an autocracy than a democracy. Read more: Trump's motive for Syria withdrawal remain as murky as its implementation Michael Knigge is DW's US correpondent Clashing views To be clear, Mattis like anyone serving this president is complicit in many of the abhorrent policies implemented by this administration, for instance, the inhumane separation of migrant children from their parents and the travel ban.  But unlike others, Mattis at least tried to mitigate or avert what he considered Trump's most ill-advised positions. Shortly after the election, but before Trump was even sworn in, Mattis publicly disagreed with Trump's pledge to bring torture back as an interrogation tool. Mattis, despite his misgivings about the Iran nuclear deal, wanted the US to remain in the pact. Mattis was also deeply skeptical about first Trump's saber-rattling vis-a-vis North Korea followed by an awkward bromance between the US president and the dictator in Pyongyang. Mattis also disagreed with Trump's oft-expressed desire to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan and Syria. The president's tweeted order to withdraw all troops from Syria on Tuesday was likely only the straw that broke the camel's back. Finally, and crucially, Mattis clashed with Trump about the transatlantic alliance. During the presidential campaign Trump had once called NATO "obsolete," a remark he never convincingly walked back because it arguably is how he really feels about the military alliance. It is here that the contrast with Mattis could not be starker. A four-star general whose career included leading a NATO command, Mattis views the alliance as crucial and routinely relayed his support for NATO to anxious European allies. Everything is pecuniary Trump does not believe in enduring alliances, does not believe in shared values or the importance of history. For him, everything is purely transactional, everything is pecuniary. This sentiment clashes with Mattis' worldview that places importance on enduring partnerships and common values, which has been, broadly speaking, the traditional stance espoused by previous US presidents. What makes Mattis' exit so consequential is that he was the last influential adviser in Trump's Cabinet whose view of the world and of the US role in it aligned with that of America's key European partners. That's why European leaders and diplomats considered Mattis, whose influence had been waning for some time, as a last bulwark against a totally erratic and irresponsible president. With their ally Mattis on the way out, Europe and NATO should now brace themselves. "The world is a very dangerous place" When Mattis leaves his post at the end of February, Trump will be fully surrounded by yes-men, who essentially perform for an audience of one and always say what they think the boss wants to hear. That is a menacing prospect for the world, especially since this presidency has not even reached its halfway mark yet. In his recent ruthless statement in support for the Saudi leadership after the murder of US-based journalist Kashoggi, Trump declared: "America First! The world is a very dangerous place!" It may sound hyperbolic and alarmistic, but Mattis' exit really could enable Trump to live up to these words in ways we might not even imagine. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis abruptly announced his retirement in late December after Trump ignored his advice and announced the complete withdrawal of US troops from Syria. His resignation letter laid bare the growing divide between them, criticizing his boss for his treatment of allies. Mattis was a keen supporter of NATO and traditional US alliances, putting him at odds with Trump. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke resigned in December as pressure mounted from more than a dozen investigations into various aspects of his tenure and private business. The former Navy SEAL was a leading advocate for expanding domestic energy production, opening up vast swathes of the country for exploration. In December, Trump announced that John Kelly, his third chief of staff, would step down at the end of 2018. He was bought in to establish order in the Trump White House but found the job arduous and his relationship with his boss soured. The retired four-star Marine Corps general will be replaced by budget director Mick Mulvaney, after several candidates turned down the job. Attorney General Jeff Sessions was fired in November after several months of abuse from Trump. Despite being an early supporter, he attracted the wrath of his boss early on by recusing himself from the Justice Department investigation into collusion. He was replaced with a loyalist who shares Trump's concerns about the investigation. He was a key figure in rolling back many of Obama's legacies. United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley, one of the administration's few high profile women, announced her resignation in October. She said her resignation was long-planned, but the announcement took most senior politicians by surprise. She will stay on until the end of 2018. She lent international legitimacy to the administration as she attempted to provide a coherent message. The White House director of legislative affairs announced he will leave his post effective July 20. Short, one of the administration's longest-serving members, was also one of its most visible, pushing Trump's legislative agenda on TV. His work, however, was frequently undercut by the POTUS, who complained about deals the team had negotiated, preferring instead to go it alone without them. It remained a mystery to many how Pruitt could hang on for so long, but the president seemed to like him. Many on the left cringed at his every move as head of the Environmental Protection Agency. He was also embroiled in various ethics scandals. Nevertheless, Trump took to Twitter to thank Pruitt for doing an "outstanding job" at the EPA. One of Trump's top lawyers in the ongoing special counsel investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 presidential election, Cobb said he simply wanted to retire. But many believe he was forced out by Trump and others in his legal team for his lack of aggression in Robert Mueller's Russia probe. Cobb was said to have been increasing uneasy about Trump's Twitter attacks on Mueller. White House Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert, who had worked for George W. Bush, was reportedly pushed out of his post in the shake up that occurred after John Bolton replaced H.R. McMaster as national security adviser. It is said that Bolton had no issues with Bossert, but that he wanted his own team in place. The White House thanked him for his "patriotic service" and wished him well. Though the White House said Shulkin resigned, he says he was fired. A holdover from the Obama administration, he was appointed to run the Department of Veteran's Affairs by Trump. His downfall came amid a travel expense scandal involving his wife. He criticized the atmosphere in the administration as, "toxic, chaotic, disrespectful and subversive," claiming he was the victim of political intrigue. In a tweet on March 22, US President Trump announced he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton as his national security adviser. A respected general, McMaster said he would retire from the US army and public service. McMaster's departure was not a complete surprise, as he and Trump are reported to have had conflicting views on a number of US policies. A former Exxon executive, Tillerson had served as secretary of state for a little over a year. Donald Trump ousted Tillerson in order to form a "new team" ahead of talks with North Korea, adding that he and Tillerson "disagreed on things." The relationship between them is said to have deteriorated after Tillerson reportedly called Trump a "moron" in October 2017. A Goldman Sachs veteran, Gary Cohn served as Donald Trump's top economic adviser at the head of the National Economic Council. He helped push through controversial tax reforms in 2017. However, Cohn stepped down in March 2018 after failing to persuade Trump to give up his idea of imposing tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Hope Hicks resigned from her post as the White House Communications Director in late February 2018. A day before resigning, she testified before US lawmakers on Russian interference. She admitted to telling "white lies" for Donald Trump, but not related to Russia. The White House insisted her resignation was not linked to the testimony. The 29-year-old was among Trump's closest aides. The White House staff secretary handed in his resignation after his ex-wives accused him of domestic abuse. Despite resigning, Rob Porter denied the allegations as "simply false." Trump initially defended Porter, and the US media questioned how Porter passed his background check for the job. Recently, reports surfaced of a romance between Porter and Trump's longtime aide Hope Hicks. He played a key role in getting Donald Trump into the White House, but even chief strategist Stephen Bannon was ousted within a year. Bannon was a champion of economic nationalism and Trump's "America First" strategy. After the fallout of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville mid-August, Bannon agreed to leave the administration. The 53-year-old former hedge fund investor nicknamed the "Mooch" was communications director for just 10 days. The colorful New Yorker filled a dream role that had been vacant for months, but was forced out on the same day that straight-shooting former Marine Corps general John Kelly became chief of staff. Trump was displeased with his infamous expletive-laden rant against other senior staff. Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, resigned in July 2017 after clashing with the White House over Trump's complicated financial holdings. Shaub reportedly called Trump's administration a "laughing stock." Reince Priebus, the former White House chief-of-staff, was forced out just six months into his tenure after a public feud with Anthony Scaramucci, the White House communications director. Priebus was reportedly among those West Wing staffers who opposed the hire of Scaramucci. Sean Spicer, who had a fraught relationship with the president and the press, resigned after telling Trump he vehemently disagreed with the selection of Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director. Michael Dubke, the former White House communications director, was asked to leave in May 2017 over what was perceived as his poor handling of the allegations about Russian involvement in the US election. US President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey — allegedly over how he handled the Clinton emails investigation. Critics, however, believe the FBI's probe into Trump's campaign ties with Russia was the real reason. Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in February 2017 after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office, and then misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations.