French riot police and "gilets jaunes" (yellow vests) protesters clashed in Paris on Saturday as a protest against the high cost of living and taxes descended into the worst urban violence France has seen in a decade. During the day-long demonstration, protesters set fire to dozens of cars and several storefronts as the violence spread from the Arc de Triomphe down the Champs-Elysees. French President Emmanuel Macron denounced Saturday's protests and vowed a tough response. "I will never accept violence," Macron said from the G20 summit in Argentina. "No cause justifies that authorities are attacked, that businesses are plundered, that passers-by or journalists are threatened or that the Arc du Triomphe is defiled." Over 200 people had been arrested and 92 people were injuried, including at least 14 police officers, according to French authorities. French officials voiced concerns that the protests were hijacked by "violent extremists." "We are facing troublemakers who are targeting the symbols of the state," Deputy Interior Minister Laurent Nunez told BFM television. Protesters torched dozens of cars and sprayed the Arc de Triomphe with multi-colored graffiti Violent turn French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said about 36,000 people had joined protests across the country, including 5,500 in the capital Paris. The first day of action on November 17 brought 282,000 people out on to the streets of France, the second brought 106,000 of whom 8,000 were in Paris, according to the interior ministry. Police used water cannon to quash violent protesters. Several protesters clashed with police in Paris, throwing projectiles and setting fire to property in the area near the Champs Elysees. The yellow vests take their name from the high-visibility jackets all motorists in France carry in their vehicles.They have blocked streets across the country and sporadically clashed with police. They are demanding the government reverse its economic policies that have resulted in high fuel prices and a spike in living costs. Some have called for Macron to resign. A protester flying the French national flag near the Place de l'Etoile Sustained protests French authorities beefed up security ahead of Saturday's protests, deploying some 5,000 police and gendarmes in Paris, up from about 3,000 last Saturday. Another 5,000 were deployed across France for other yellow-vest protests, which were largely peaceful. Due to the clashes, central Paris was locked down on Saturday afternoon, with several metro stations closed due to security reasons. Three formal demonstrations had been planned across Paris on Saturday: the one organized by "yellow vests," a trade union protest against unemployment and a separate rally against racism. 'Yellow vest' protests have also spread to Belgium Macron criticized The protests enjoy widespread support in France, with an opinion poll published on Wednesday showing that two in three people backed the rallies, despite the disruption they have caused to traffic and the economy. The protests pose one of the biggest challenges to Macron's 18-month presidency. Macron has rejected demands to scrap an increase in fuel tax due to come into force in January, saying it is necessary to fight pollution. However, he did promise on Tuesday to come up with a roadmap aimed at helping France move toward a low-carbon economy without putting an added burden on those with a low income. Macron, a former investment banker, has faced growing criticism of a perceived elitist attitude that puts him at a distance from normal citizens. "Yellow vest" protests have also spread to Belgium. On Friday, police in Brussels clashed with protesters angered by high taxes and food prices. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38s8X rs, shs/jlw (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.