DW: Axel, football is a real joy for you here in Dortmund, even if it's really cold. Axel Witsel: Yes today was really cold, but I enjoying being here every day in training and in games. Herbstmeister (champion of the first half of the season) — What does that mean to you? For me, this is nothing. In the end you are not really champion. We still have to work hard, like we do. We have a hard week, because we play Tuesday and Friday so we have two more finals. We just have to think about that. Michael Zorc talked about getting better at taking chances. Do you agree? I think he's right. We could have killed the game. Sometimes when you get opportunities to score more goals I think we should be more focused. We had the chance today with [Jadon] Sancho, for example. But in the end we won the game 2-1 and we are happy so we keep going. How are your energy levels at the end of the first half of the season? We are good. We've played a lot of really good games and now our objective is to finish that way in the last two games. You are a leader of a very young team. What is your task in guiding this team towards victory? I'm one of the leaders of the team because of my age, because we have a really young group of players, but I'm not the only one. Marco [Reus], Mario [Götze], Piszczu (Lukas Piszczek) also. I think we have a good mix between young talent and experience, and it's why we're doing so well now. We'll do our best to keep going like this until the end of the season. What do you think of your chances of being German champions at the end of the season? It's not the time to speak about that. The second half of the season will be long. We have to keep going as we are now, taking it game-by-game. That's it, and in the end we will see the result. Axel Witsel joined Borussia Dortmund before the start of the season from Tianjin Quanjian, a club in the Chinese Super League. Witsel began his career at Belgian side Standard Liege and has played for five different clubs in five different countries, including Benfica in Lisbon, Portugal and Zenit St. Petersburg in Russia. He has 101 caps with the Belgium national team and helped them finish third at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. He has played a total of 22 games for Dortmund in the Bundesliga, German Cup and Champions League this season. The interview was conducted by Joscha Weber. An injury-stricken Schalke picked up a point and more frustration in Augsburg. Ralf Fährmann's poor punch gave Michael Gregoritsch a free header in the first half and Schalke looked out of it until Daniel Caligiuri fired home a long-range effort to level the scores. Haji Wright thought he had scored the winner, but was offside. The result leaves both sides stuck in the lower half of the table. First half goals from Paco Alcacer and Marco Reus kept Borussia Dortmund's nine-point lead at the top of the Bundesliga intact. Max Kruse's fine volley from distance cut Dortmund's lead in half, but Werder Bremen couldn't build on that as Lucien Favre's side pulled off an important win and look set to go into the winter break with a healthy lead over their rivals. A Mario Gomez brace helped Stuttgart make big strides in their quest to move away from the relegation zone. The visitors dominated the first half, with Maximilian Mittelstädt finishing off a neat team move for the opener. Stuttgart battled back though. Mario Gomez poked home his first goal since October 6 and then powered in a headed second not long after to lift Stuttgart out of the drop zone. It might have only been against a struggling Hannover team, but Bayern Munich got back in their groove. Joshua Kimmich's volley into the far corner gave Bayern the perfect start after just 65 seconds, and not long after David Alaba smashed a stunning half volley into the top corner. Serge Gnabry and Robert Lewandowski added goals as Bayern stayed brilliant. What looked a good chance for Freiburg to pull away from the bottom of the table, turned into a game that Düsseldorf could have won by more. Having missed a host of chances and been bizarrely denied a penalty for a handball, two set-pieces won the day for Fortuna. Kaan Ayhan powered home a header and flicked in a second as the hosts climb into the relegation playoff spot. On a cold day, Gladbach fans warmed themselves with quite the showing. On the pitch, the visitors didn't look as hot. Hoffenheim looked the more active and likely to score, despite the fact they played in Manchester midweek. Joelinton curled in a superb strike but was ruled out for offside by VAR and Adam Szalai blazed over in added time as both ended up having to share the points. Wolfsburg extended their unbeaten run to four games after picking up their fourth away victory of the season in Nuremburg. After a scoreless first half, Daniel Ginczek put the Wolves ahead with his third goal in as many games and Josip Brekalo added another in second half stoppage time. The loss for Nuremburg extended their winless run to nine games. Author: Jonathan Harding, Davis VanOpdorp 