Moroccan police arrested three more suspects over the murders of two young Scandinavian backpackers, authorities announced on Thursday. Another suspect was arrested on Tuesday, with a Moroccan prosecutor saying the man had ties to an unnamed terrorist group. The bodies of 24-year-old Louisa Vesterager Jespersen from Denmark and 28-year-old Maren Ueland from Norway were found by fellow tourists on Monday with their throats slashed on a popular hiking route in the Atlas Mountains, near North Africa's highest peak. The Moroccan Bureau for Judicial Investigations said that the evidence so far indicated a terrorist motive. Danish Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen appeared to agree with the assessment, saying that the murders were "politically motivated and thus an act of terror." Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg called the killings "a brutal and meaningless attack on innocent people, which we react to with disgust and condemnation." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1E8vx Video shared on social media Police are checking the authenticity of a video shared on social media that purports to show the killing of one of the tourists, the general prosecutor said in a statement. The video shows a woman in underpants screaming as a man decapitates her with what appears to be a kitchen knife while another person holds down the victim. The scene appears to take place outside a tent with camping gear scattered on the ground. Reuters news agency reported the video appears to have been filmed in a different place from where the bodies were found. Local media reported that the suspects had links to the "Islamic State" group. There were also local reports of video surveillance footage showing three suspects putting up a tent near the victims' tent and leaving the area after the slaying. Rare occurrence Morocco has largely avoided the terrorist violence prevalent in other North African countries, thanks in part to the 2015 creation of the Central Bureau for Judicial Investigations, which has so far broken up 57 militant cells, including eight in 2018. However, more than 1,000 young Moroccans have joined militant groups in the Middle East. The country is generally considered to be safe for tourists, aside from harassment of solo female travelers. Tourism accounts for about 10 percent of the Moroccan economy and is the kingdom's second-largest employer, after agriculture. It's also the main source of foreign currency. After the killing, authorities in Denmark and Norway warned their citizens against hiking without local guides in Morocco. rs, aw/sms (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.