Elvis Presley is ready to help pedestrians rock'n'roll across the street in the western German town of Friedberg near Frankfurt. Three traffic lights featuring the "King's" image have been placed around the town's Elvis Presley Square to commemorate the singer. While people are waiting to cross, the singer appears in the red light striking a pose at a microphone. When the lights go green Elvis is shown swinging his hips in a famous dance move. Elvis swinging his hips in one of the traffic lights in Friedberg Local politician Marion Götz (SPD) told The Wetterauer Zeitung newspaper the town had paid €900 for the lights as an extra attraction for tourists. Why is he there? Presley had a strong connection with Friedberg, a town of around 28,000 inhabitants, located 26 kilometers north of Frankfurt in the state of Hesse. Read more: Without Africans in North America, we would never have had Elvis Presley He was stationed there from October 1958 until March 1960 while serving as a soldier in the US Army. He lived in nearby Bad Nauheim. Elvis Presley in his US Army uniform while stationed in Friedberg It was there he met his future wife Priscilla Beaulieu, who he married after a seven-year relationship. Both towns are keen to make sure no one forgets "the King," who died in 1977, or their connections to him. While Friedberg first switched on the new traffic lights on Wednesday, Bad Nauheim holds the ‘European Elvis festival' and is planning a bronze statue of him. Flowers and pictures of Elvis left at his memorial in Bad Nauheim Bad Nauheim has long been a site of pilgrimage for Elvis' fans and people lay candles, flowers and gifts for him. A little more action According to Götz it took three months to get the police to give the go-ahead and then a local graphic designer to send his ideas to the manufacturer. However, the work appears to have paid off, with The Wetterauer Zeitung reporting positive reviews. "Good idea," "witty," "something a little different," were some of the reactions. One person added, "I did wonder about it, but as always I crossed on green." Following a trend Transforming traffic lights has become something of a trend in Germany. The most famous are the Ampelmännchen in Berlin. Created in 1961 in what was then East Berlin, they now appear all over the united capital. The city of Augsburg now has the Kasperl puppet character in a pointed hat, Mainz has its ownMainzelmännchen, Bonn has Beethoven traffic lights and in Trier a small, chubby Karl Marx lets pedestrians know when to cross. The eastern town of Erfurt has had up to 14 different kinds of lights since the 1980s. Born in the town of Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley began his career in Memphis, Tennessee. He is pictured here in 1954 while recording at the famous Sun Studio in Memphis, which also helped launch B.B. King's career. Quickly rising to fame, his first hit, "Heartbreak Hotel," propelled him into stardom in 1956. Presley put his career on hold while serving in the US military in Germany from 1958 to 1960. Stationed in the small town of Friedberg, Presley stayed in a hotel in nearby Bad Nauheim instead of living in the barracks. There, he lived with an entourage: his grandmother, father and two body guards. Today, hotel guests can sleep in the Elvis Room, which was preserved to commemorate the King's stay. Although he was prohibited from performing during service, the King still found time to make music. Germany was the birthplace of two chart-toppers: "One Night" and "A Fool Such as I." He also gave global fame to the popular German folk song, "Muss I denn zum Städtele hinaus," or in English, "Wooden Heart." Elvis's time in Germany is well-documented. In 2011, three collectors, including Andreas Schröer, pictured here, opened the Elvis Museum in Dusseldorf - the largest Elvis collection outside of the US. Over 600 items are display, many from his GI years. Visitors can get an idea of what it must have been like to see him up close and personal. While Elvis was stationed in Germany, he also met Priscilla Beaulieu, the daughter of a US military officer. She was just 14 years old at the time. The couple married years later at the Aladdin Hotel in Las Vegas in 1967, although the King reportedly continued to enjoy the company of other women. Legend has it, Elvis adopted the jumpsuit after he split his pants on stage. Whatever the reason, the garment was an instant hit. B&K, a company in Charlestown, Indiana creates Elvis jumpsuits based on the originals and is the only company licensed to do so by the former designers of Presley's costumes. Fans and impersonators must wait 14-16 weeks for delivery. Elvis's legacy stretches far and wide. The European Elvis Festivals takes place each year in Bad Nauheim and attracts plenty of die-hard impersonators. The King also has official fan clubs in 38 different countries, as well as plenty of memorabilia. Granada, Spain was the first city to put the King's face on a commemorative stamp in 1978. Germany followed suit in 1988. Elvis has inspired an entire industry of impersonators, as well as films like "Bye Bye, Birdie" (1967), based on his career. But who inspired the King? Elvis was known to enjoy the music of gospel singer Sister Rosetta Tharpe and once called actor James Dean (pictured) a "genius." Elvis passed away at his residence, Graceland, on August 16, 1977. Now open to the public, Graceland is the second-most visited home historical residence in the US after the White House. It's run by a multi-million dollar company called Elvis Presley Enterprises, making it unsurprising that Elvis regularly hits the top of Forbes' annual "Top-Earning Dead Celebrities" list. Each year, Elvis fans commemorate his death on August 16, 1977 by lighting candles in front of Graceland. In 2007, the 30th anniversary of his death, a record 75,000 people attended the candlelight vigil at the residence - a tribute fit for the King of rock & roll. Author: Sarah Hucal Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 