The European Commission on Wednesday proposed 14 contingency measures to prepare for the possibility that the United Kingdom leaves the European Union on March 29 without a withdrawal agreement in place. The proposals concern several areas the European Union's executive believes would be impacted in the case of a so-called "no-deal Brexit," including financial services, air transport, customs, and climate policy. Key proposals: The European Commission started implementing its "no deal" Contingency Action Plan on Wednesday. The measures include: Read more: Opinion: A Monty Python madhouse in Westminster The commission urged the European Parliament and the European Council to "adopt the proposals as a matter of urgency." It also called upon EU member states to "accelerate their work to prepare for all scenarios for the United Kingdom’s departure." The UK is scheduled to depart the European bloc in 100 days time and Prime Minister Theresa May has thus far failed in attempts to find support from British parliament for her Brexit deal, one the EU says it will not renegotiate. If the two sides fail to ratify an agreement by March 29, the UK's exit would be unregulated — the so-called "no-deal" or "hard Brexit" scenario. UK Prime Minister Theresa May told the British parliament on Wednesday that she was working with the EU to gain the assurances she believed were necessary to win over the lower house. "We will set out what is achieved in our EU discussions when we return in the New Year, when we have had those discussions," she said. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2 issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary Davis. They resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. The Chequers proposal did not go down well either with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, where he captioned a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft was widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. Author: Alexander Pearson UK businesses reaching 'point of no return' On Tuesday, the British government said it would bolster preparations for a "no-deal" Brexit. The plans include putting 3,500 British troops on standby to prevent public order from deteriorating and setting aside space on ferries to ensure a flow of medical supplies. Britain's five main business lobby groups on Wednesday said UK businesses were "watching in horror" as lawmakers haggled over May's withdrawal deal and had begun to make their own contingency plans for a no-deal scenario. "Businesses of all sizes are reaching the point of no return, with many now putting in place contingency plans that are a significant drain of time and money," the British Chambers of Commerce, the Confederation of British Industry, the Federation of Small Businesses, the Institute of Directors and the manufacturers' organization EEF said in a joint statement. "Businesses have been watching in horror as politicians have focused on factional disputes rather than practical steps that business needs to move forward. The lack of progress in Westminster means that the risk of a 'no-deal' Brexit is rising." Business leaders worry that additional checks on the post-Brexit UK-EU border will clog ports, congest trade and disturb supply chains across the continent and beyond. On Wednesday, May was expected to urge the leaders of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to "listen to business" and back her Brexit deal. Read more: 'Scotland wants to trade as freely as possible with Europe' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AHRd dv/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.