The German Foreign Ministry on Wednesday confirmed to DW that German journalist Billy Six has been arrested in Venezuela. The ministry said it has extended consular services to the journalist, who is known for his bylines in the Berlin-based right-wing Junge Freiheit newspaper. "We appreciate his journalistic work and the intrepid manner in which Bill Six reports from crisis regions across the world," Junge Freiheit editor-in-chief Dieter Stein told DW. "With all our strength, we will support his family and the Foreign Ministry to secure his release." 'Crimes and realities' German diplomats in Venezuela have been unable to access Six, according to the newspaper's spokesman Bastian Behrens. The Foreign Ministry told DW it could not provide further comment about Six's case. Venezuelan authorities have accused Six of spying, rebellion and "violating security zones," Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said, citing Venezuelan NGO Espacio Publico. "Six was in Venezuela investigating drug trafficking activities, smuggling of fuel and strategic goods, human trafficking and even the exodus of Venezuelans — crimes and realities present in this part of Venezuela," said Gerardo Moron of Espacio Publico. Read more: Venezuelan deserters facing tough choices Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term on May 20 with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to the election body. However, the MUD opposition alliance, which boycotted the vote, put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States called the elections neither free nor fair. Author: Kathleen Schuster A journalist's right Six was allegedly arrested after crossing into Venezuela from Colombia. He was transferred to a military detention center, according to Espacio Publico. RSF said he faces up to 28 years in prison if found guilty of all three charges. This is not the first time Six has been arrested in a foreign country. In 2013, he was detained in Syria for several weeks. However, his current situation has received little media attention in Germany. His relatives told The Associated Press that it is likely due to his ultra-conservative beliefs. "Regardless of his personal views, he — like any journalist — has the right to report freely and without fear of persecution and imprisonment anywhere," said Christian Mihr, director of RSF in Germany. Chase Winter of DW's English news service contributed to this report. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.