In a political discussion, entitled "What Bangladesh do you want?" — organized by DW on December 7 — Bangladeshi expats spoke about their hopes and fears regarding the upcoming parliamentary elections in their home country. More than 40 Bangladeshis living in Germany participated in the discussion, which gave a platform to the Bangladeshi diaspora to share their views on the crucial December 30 vote. While most of the participants expressed hope for a free and fair election, some said they were dissatisfied with the political environment in their home country ahead of the polls. Critics say that Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's government is cracking down on opposition and free thinkers in the run-up to the December 30 election, a claim that the ruling Awami League (AL) party denies. Read more: Bangladesh youth could determine winners in 2018 elections DW Asia head Debarati Guha also shared her views on the upcoming election High expectations Mir Monaz Haque, a Berlin-based engineer, said a lack of democratic culture is hindering Bangladesh's progress, adding that in comparison to Germany, the state institutions in his homeland are not independent. "In Bangladesh, most people know the name of the election commissioner. How many Germans can name their election commissioner? Not many, because they don't need to know the election commissioner's name. The election system in Germany works independently and the voting here is free and fair," Haque told the "What Bangladesh do you want?" conference, adding that Bangladesh needs an independent election commission. Some members of Bangladesh's major political parties also participated in the discussion. While Bashirul Alam Chowdhury, a member of ruling AL party, claimed that PM Hasina's tenure has been successful, Mostak Khan, a member of the main opposition outfit, the Bangladesh National Party (BNP), pointed out that a German think-tank recently described the AL rule as an "autocracy." Ahm Abdul Hai, a Bangladeshi journalist living in Bonn, hoped that people in Bangladesh would become more tolerant of dissenting opinions. "Bangladesh needs to abolish death penalties and put an end to extrajudicial killings. We must make sure that the citizens' lives are not put in harm's way," Hai said. Most participants hoped that there would be a smooth transition of power after the parliamentary election. Read more: Bangladesh's ex-PM Khaleda Zia given new jail sentence The Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) was formed in 2004 to battle growing Islamism in Bangladesh. It initially managed to arrest or kill some top terrorists. But it did not take long for RAB's good reputation to be tarnished as it slowly became a symbol of fear. It's now seen as an all-powerful "death squad" unit that acts on the fringes of the law and imposes its own brand of justice. The South Asian nation's government has been planning to spend about 1.21 billion Bangladeshi taka (€12 million, $13.9 million) on the monitoring project, according to DW's local media partner bdnews24.com. The project will allow RAB to monitor activities like anti-state propaganda, rumors and provocations on Facebook, YouTube, Viber as well as other means of communication on the internet. Tasneem Khalil, a Swedish-Bangladeshi journalist, reminds that RAB has already been used for detaining government critics for their comments on Facebook. "Now such cases will multiply," he said, adding: ''International actors, especially the EU, must take concrete action and sanction this force, which is a tool for curtailing freedoms and liberties of ordinary citizens in the country." The Bangladeshi government has recently come up with a new law, the Digital Security Act, which contains provisions mandating long prison sentences of up to seven years or harsh fines for any statement posted online that might disrupt the law and order situation, hurt religious feelings or ruin communal harmony. Experts consider the law as part of a broader campaign to silence government critics. In a rare move, prominent newspaper editors of the Muslim-majority country on Monday formed a human chain in front of the national press club in the capital Dhaka demanding amendments to nine sections of the Digital Security Act. They say these sections pose a threat to independent journalism and the freedom of expression. But the government has yet to respond to those demands. A journalist could be convicted of espionage for entering a government office and gathering information secretly using any electronic device, an offense that would carry a 14-year jail sentence, according to the new law. Mahfuz Anam, a prominent editor, said, "This law will not only deal with cybercrimes but also gag the independent media." Despite global condemnation, Bangladesh, which ranked 146th among 180 countries in the Press Freedom Index 2018, has kept prominent activist Shahidul Alam behind bars. He was arrested in August following his criticism of the government for using excessive force against peaceful student protesters. Activists view his arrest as a sign of the government's harsh treatment of its critics. Author: Arafatul Islam Tense elections Many inside and outside Bangladesh doubt the ability of the country's institutions to organize a free, fair and inclusive national election, which may pave the way for a peaceful transition of power between various political parties. As the polling date approaches, opposition parties in Bangladesh have been increasingly calling for international observers to monitor the polls, hoping that their presence on the ground will put pressure on Bangladeshi officials to ensure the election is free and fair. Earlier this month, William Moeller, a political officer at the US embassy in Dhaka, told the Reuters news agency that there had been reports of harassment and intimidation before last month's city corporation elections. "We raised these concerns at the time, so we are hoping we won't see the same issues in the national elections," Moeller said, adding that Washington was planning to send 12 observer teams to monitor the parliamentary elections in Bangladesh. In October, the US National Democratic Institute said the December 30 polls would be held "amid a high degree of political polarization, heightened tensions and shrinking political space." Read more: Why Bangladesh needs foreign observers during election Neutral setup In a bid to instill a sense of neutrality among the officials, the opposition has repeatedly sought the help of international observers. The country's political opposition, led by the BNP, has demanded that the ruling AL party quit before the polls and handover power to a caretaker government. A "neutral" administration, opposition politicians say, would ensure a level-playing field for all parties contesting the vote. But the idea has been rejected by the ruling party and their leader, PM Hasina. But unlike in 2014, when the main opposition party boycotted the polls, the BNP has opted to participate in the elections this time round, despite its demand not being met. For the past 28 years, Bangladeshi politics have been dominated by two strong female politicians — Hasina and opposition leader Khaleda Zia. Hasina's AL has held power since 2009 and dispensed from 2014 with a practice of letting a neutral caretaker government oversee elections. Bangladesh's economy has steadily improved under Hasina's rule but human rights groups have criticized increasing curbs on freedom of speech and the media in the past decade. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/39L1w