In her traditional New Year's address, Germany's chancellor first directs her words at the people in her own country: "Dear fellow citizens." Yet these words should also be listened to attentively beyond Germany's borders. When Angela Merkel takes stock of what she sees as an "extremely difficult political year," she does so from two perspectives: national and international. The chancellor begins her speech with an inward look at the long and difficult process of forming a government after the 2017 federal elections. The process lasted six months "and once we had it, there was a lot of quarrelling and preoccupation with ourselves." Merkel, a member of the Christian Democrats (CDU), does not mention any examples. But two are memorable: the constant disputes with Interior Minister Horst Seehofer from the CDU's Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and spats with the Social Democrats (SPD). Most of them were over Germany's migration policy. Christian Democrat (CDU) Angela Merkel is Germany's chancellor. She is in her fourth term as leader of the German government and in her third at the head of a "grand coalition" between the CDU, its conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democrats (SPD). Merkel says she will not run for chancellor at the next general election in 2021. Seehofer was Bavaria's state premier until he became he took over the interior portfolio in Merkel's Cabinet. This will be the first time that the vaguely patriotic "Heimat" concept (roughly "homeland") is included in the interior minister's domain. Bavaria, however, has had a state Heimat Ministry for five years. Seehofer remains head of the conservative Christian Social Union (CSU) in Bavaria. Former Justice Minister Heiko Maas succeeded his Social Democrat colleague, Sigmar Gabriel, as foreign minister in March. Maas was in charge of Justice Ministry when the government passed a controversial internet law to combat hate speech online. Scholz served as mayor of Hamburg before moving to Berlin to take the reigns at the Finance Ministry. The Finance Ministry's capture was a significant win for the SPD. Scholz will also serve as vice-chancellor. He had been in Merkel's Cabinet once before, as minister of labor and social affairs from 2007 to 2009. Von der Leyen has been defense minister since 2013 and kept her job in the new government. This comes despite numerous scandals within the Bundeswehr, Germany's military, that broke since she took over the Defense Ministry. Her relationship with the troops suffered, but Merkel trusts her. Altmaier was Merkel's chief of staff at the Chancellery before his nomination to take over the Economy Ministry. The last time a CDU politician was in the post was half a century before. Altmaier is regarded as extremely loyal to the chancellor. Katarina Barley took over as justice minister after serving as both minister of family affairs and labor in the previous government. The 49-year-old is a lawyer by training and holds both British and German citizenship. Hubertus Heil succeeded Andrea Nahles, who stepped down to take over as head of the SPD. A member of the Bundestag since 1998, Heil has twice served as the party's secretary general. Svenja Schulze replaced party colleague Barbara Hendricks, Germany's former minister for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety, in March. Schulze previously served as minister for innovation, science and research in the western German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Jens Spahn, 37, is representative of a new political generation within the CDU and seen as a future contender for party leadership. In the last government, he served as the parliamentary state secretary in the Finance Ministry. Prior to that, he helped lead the CDU's health policy in the Bundestag. Anja Karliczek, a former hotel manager who is relatively unknown, was nominated by Merkel to take over the Education Ministry. She had a lot of money to spend: The ministry's budget was increased by €11 billion ($13.6 billion) to pay for school and university improvements shortly before her appointment. Franziska Giffey's elevation from the mayor of Berlin's Neukölln district to Cabinet minister was perhaps one of the most eye-catching appointments. Giffey bypassed the Bundestag altogether to ascend into government. But the SPD leadership believed her experience in charge of what has often been described as Berlin's "troubled" district made her the most suitable candidate for the role. Gerd Müller, 62, retained his post as development minister, which he has held since December 2013. He won the job over fellow CSU member Dorothee Bär, who was also in the running. Bär became the state minister for digital affairs in the chancellery, a newly created job. Scheuer, considered a close ally of CSU party head Seehofer, took over the Transport Ministry from party colleague Alexander Dobrindt. He is experienced in the field: From 2009 to 2013, he was parliamentary state secretary in the Transport Ministry. Prior to his latest appointment, he was the CSU's secretary general. Klöckner previously worked as parliamentary state secretary in the Agriculture Ministry from 2009 to 2011. Between her ministerial stints in Berlin, she was deputy chair of the CDU and headed the CDU in the western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Helge Braun took over from CDU colleague Peter Altmaier as Chancellery head in March. He had previously served in deputy positions in the Chancellery and Education Ministry. Author: Carla Bleiker, Alexander Pearson Fateful questions: climate change, migration, terrorism But Merkel does not want the tense climate within the coalition to be understood as the reason for her intention to step down as chancellor at the end of this legislative period in 2021. She says she would have done so "regardless of how unsatisfactory the past year was." Her long tenure in office, which has lasted 13 years, is "reason enough." We build on "what our predecessors have left us" and shape the present for those who come after us. "Democracy," she says, "thrives on change." Merkel is convinced that the challenges of the time can be mastered "if we stick together and work with others across borders." These challenges include not only the "fateful question of climate change," but also migration and the fight against international terrorism. "We want to solve all of these questions because it is in our interest." Germany's role in the United Nations Security Council However, a willingness to accept the many challenges is shrouded by doubt. Merkel says the traditional certainties of international cooperation have come under pressure. Again, she gives no examples. But there is no question that this includes nationalist politics on both sides of the Atlantic. Her conclusion: "In such a situation, we have to advocate, argue and fight for our beliefs with more conviction." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3A2cA Referring to Germany's seat on the United Nations (UN) Security Council, which will start on January 1 and is limited to two years, Merkel says Germany will advocate for "global" solutions. "We are continuing to increase our funding for humanitarian and development aid, and are also boosting our defense spending." Germany will also work to make the European Union (EU) "more robust and capable" and seek to maintain a "close partnership" with the United Kingdom despite its planned withdrawal from the EU. The chancellor also called on Germans to help the EU remain a "project of peace, prosperity and security" as the bloc prepares for European elections in May. 'Openness, tolerance and respect' Toward the end of her address, Merkel once again looks inwards. Working toward the goal of "equal living conditions," she says the German government wants to ensure that "everyone has good access to education, housing and health care." It is, she says, trying to find the "best solutions" to those problems. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AmPa "More and more, however, it is also about the style of our interaction, about our values: openness, tolerance and respect." Merkel is worried about the political climate in Germany, which became harsher in 2018. Yet she remains confident: "When we believe in our values and implement our ideas with vigor, something new and good can emerge." Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.