Armenians are voting in an early parliamentary election on Sunday after acting Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian dissolved parliament in October to shore up his authority. Pashinian, a former journalist, is hoping the My Step Alliance, which includes his Civil Contract Party, will achieve a parliamentary majority ahead of the former ruling Republican Party. Polls show that the alliance is on course to easily win a majority. "We set big and difficult goals and we will achieve them, because we are a powerful, victorious free and happy nation," he said at a recent campaign rally. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2yeuv Pashinian's ascent Lawmakers elected Pashinian to the prime minister's office in May after he spearheaded weeks of protests against former Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan. Pashinian and his followers accused Sargsyan of trying to cling to power by becoming prime minister after serving two terms as president. A 2015 constitutional amendment had shifted powers from the presidency to the prime minister's office. Since entering office, Pashinian has targeted senior Sargsyan associates while the former prime minister has kept a low profile. Pashinian's agenda Pashinian, 43, vows to maintain Armenia's close military and economic ties to Russia. The former Soviet republic hosts a Russian military base and is highly dependent on Russian loans and trade. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2wXJq He also pledges to continue the previous government's support for ethnic Armenian forces that control Nagorno-Karabakh, a break-away region of neighboring Azerbaijan. That pledge is likely to maintain Armenia's isolation. Azerbaijan and neighboring Turkey closed their borders and cut trade ties to Armenia in response to its supportive policy. amp/jm (Reuters, AP) At 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of news and features. You can sign up to receive it here.