The UN envoy for Yemen had urged the rapid deployment of monitors as "an essential part of the confidence" for the implementation of the ceasefire agreement signed by Yemen's government and Houthi rebels in Stockholm earlier in the month. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is to "establish and deploy, for an initial period of 30 days from the adoption of this resolution, an advance team to begin monitoring and to support and facilitate the immediate implementation of the Stockholm agreement." He is then expected to submit proposals on longer-term UN monitoring. The ceasefire deal for the port city was hailed as the first sign of a breakthrough in the four-year conflict. Friday's UN resolution was the first on Yemen in more than three years. The Yemen port of Hodeida is the main entry point for food and aid US threatened veto However, it took substantial editing before the resolution was passed. The initial text, drafted by the UK mission, was rewritten by the US on Thursday. On US insistence, guarantees for humanitarian deliveries and accountability for war crimes were removed. A clause expressing grave concern about the "growing threat of conflict-induced famine and the devastating impact of the conflict on civilians" was dropped from the text. Similiarly a call for "transparent, credible and timely investigations" into war crimes and for those responsible to be held to account, was removed from the UN resolution. Instead, the text "calls on the Government of Yemen and the Houthis to remove bureaucratic impediments to flows of commercial and humanitarian supplies, including fuel, and on the parties to ensure effective and sustained functioning of all of Yemen's ports." The US focus has remained on an insistence of Iran's role in arming the Houthi fighters. UN envoy Martin Griffiths on a visit to Sanaa Read more: US Senate votes to end US support for Saudi-led Yemen war Joint monitoring committee The UN resolution calls for the ceasefire to be respected and for warring parties not to bring reinforcements into Hodeidah. UN special envoy Martin Griffiths is to work with the Yemen government and Houthi rebels to stabilize the economy and keep Sanaa airport open. Hodeidah is a key entry point for food and medical aid into Yemen. Yemen's government had warned that if the UN mandate for monitors was not approved, the ceasefire could collapse. The first meeting of a joint monitoring committee, including three Houthi and three Yemen government nominees, had been scheduled for Saturday. Retired Dutch General Patrick Cammaert has been appointed to head the committee to oversee a two-stage withdrawal of all troops from Hodeidah. The forces are to be withdrawn within three weeks from the city and port of Hodeidah and Salif and Ras Issa ports. jm/msh (Reuters, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.