Three people suffered knife injuries at Manchester Victoria station on Monday evening, UK police said. Officers were called onto the scene after receiving reports of a man stabbing members of the public shortly before 9 p.m. local time (2100 UTC). One man was arrested, and two people were taken to hospital. One of the people stabbed was a police officer. The Manchester Evening News reported all trains to the station were halted and the station was closed. Witnesses shared accounts of the incident on social media. Another witness — Sam Clack, 38, a BBC producer — quoted the suspect as saying: "As long as you keep bombing other countries this sort of shit is going to keep happening." One witness told local media he saw a man dressed entirely in black attack a man and a woman in their 60s, after which police tasered and peppersprayed the man Counter-terrorism police were investigating the attack, police said later, but stressed there was nothing to suggest a wider threat. In 2017, Manchester was the site of a major terrorist attack when a young Islamist blew himself up at an Ariana Grande concert, killing 22 other people and injuring 139 others. Read more: Manchester bomb attack: UK remembers victims one year on aw/amp (Reuters, dpa) Hundreds of flowers were laid in Manchester's central St. Ann's Square in a floral tribute to honor those who lost their lives. The city organized several events to mark the anniversary, including a memorial service attended by Prime Minister Theresa May and a choral concert by 3,000 singers. UK Prime Minister Theresa May arrived at "The Manchester Arena National Service of Commemoration at Manchester Cathedral" in the afternoon. Earlier, she wrote a commentary in the Manchester Evening News, saying that "such appalling acts of wickedness will do nothing but strengthen our resolve to defeat such twisted ideologies and beliefs." Opposition leader and head of the Labour Party Jeremy Corbyn (l.) also attended the memorial service, sitting two seats down from Prime Minister Theresa May. Other leaders seen during the service included Manchester Mayor and former Labour government minister Andy Burnham and First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon. Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, was welcomed with a round of applause outside the cathedral, as the Royal Family appears to enjoy a rise in popularity following William's brother Harry's wedding the previous weekend. William shared a reading from the Book of Corinthians - one that had been read at his mother Diana's funeral in 1997. Ariana Grande shared a tweet, saying she was thinking of all her fans "on this challenging day." The superstar featured a bee in her tweet — a symbol for the city of Manchester. Last year, Grande had organized a benefit concert for the victims two weeks after the attack, which featured several high profile performers from the US and the UK. The attack after the Ariana Grande concert at the Manchester Arena on May 22, 2017 came as part of a series of attacks in the UK that year. Police continue to investigate the circumstances surrounding the bombing and have requested the extradition of the attacker's brother from Libya for questioning as part of the investigation. Authorities believe that a terrorist ring may be involved. Author: Sertan Sanderson Every day at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.