Angry coach drivers paralyzed traffic in central Rome on Friday as they protested a plan to ban their vehicles from the historic city center. More than 100 coaches occupied the central Piazza Venezia, near the Colosseum and city hall, causing major tailbacks throughout the Italian capital during the morning rush hour. Tour bus operators are furious about a ban being introduced on January 1 by Mayor Virginia Raggi to stop them entering the center. They argue the move will drive them out of business, severely damaging the city's vital tourism sector and affecting shops and restaurants. City officials counter that cutting coach numbers would reduce pollution and the related damage to ancient monuments, as well as make the area safer for pedestrians. Dozens of coaches triple parked in the central Piazza Venezia "The time for buses frolicking in the city is over," said Raggi, a member of the anti-establishment leftist 5-Star Movement. Rome 'held hostage' Dozens of coaches began to double and triple park on the large roundabout at the Piazza Venezia and several other city sites from 7 a.m. local time (0600 GMT/UTC) on Friday, according to local media. The blockade forced police to close two main roads in the center, Via del Teatro Marcello and Via dei Cerchi, and caused severe disruption to public transport. Read more: 'Rome Says Enough!': Thousands protest city's decline "From January 1 many of us will be unemployed," said Cinzia Renzi, head of trade association Assoviaggi Confesercenti. "We already had a 10 percent reduction in bookings." But Raggi refused to back down. According to Italian news agency ANSA, she met with a group of protesters and told them it was "unacceptable for Rome to be held hostage by tourist buses." "The city center must immediately be freed up, you must end your protest because you are paralyzing the city," she continued. A placard inside the windshield of a tourist coach at the Piazza Venezia reads: "Car and Driver for sale, for information ask for Mayor Raggi." Red zone off-limits to busses The new plan will divide the city into three sectors. A "red zone" around Rome's key monuments, such as the Trevi Fountain, will only be accessible for coaches with special permission. Officials say tourist buses will instead be able to park in nearby "green zones," which will include the Vatican, with people able to walk from there. A "yellow zone" will be intended for long-term parking. Read more: Italy strikes deal with EU over budget Operators will also have to buy daily passes, rather than the previous yearly subscriptions. Past mayors had attempted to introduce similar restrictions but were always unable to push them through. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2v0q8 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. am/msh (Reuters, dpa) 