Every year at Christmas, I encounter people who are particularly zealous: "Merry Christmas! Oh, no, you're not celebrating. I mean, happy holidays!" Yes, as a German with Turkish heritage who comes from a conservative Muslim family, I did not grow up celebrating Christmas. For my family, the holiday was just a long weekend. We watched the Four Hills Tournament ski competition, Little Lord Fauntleroy and, of course, Three Wishes for Cinderella. That was Christmas for us. Erkan Arikan heads DW's Turkish department Now, I ask myself every year why people are so careful to not wish me a Merry Christmas. I, too, look forward to the holiday season: That's when the people around me think about their religion at least once a year.  I enjoy the contemplation and the deceleration. Christmas grounds people, at least those with whom I deal from day to day. It's a nice feeling. Every year, my family and I are happy to receive Christmas cards from our friends, just as we likewise, send out Christmas greetings — not because we have to, but because it is a form of decency to respect the religion of others. Integration, Migration and Refugees Commissioner Annette Widmann-Mauz was acting with honorable intent when she omitted "Christmas" from this year's holiday cards; her aim is to not hurt, offend or exclude people who do not celebrate the Christian holiday. But the word does not offend me: I, too, would like to have a Happy Christmas!  Non-Christian parents know that Germany's heavily Christian calendar generally overlooks the holidays celebrated by their religions. Our family has one strategy for this. When I celebrate the end of Ramadan with my daughters, they get presents, as they do at Christmas, but without the tree or the nativity scene. Yes, I know that the holiday is about more than just presents. But that is how Christmas is celebrated at our place. If anyone askes, I simply respond that we Muslims also celebrate the birth of Jesus. He is also an important prophet in our religion. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AaOp What about Ramadan? Instead of excluding me from German traditions out of fear of insulting me, it would be much nicer if Christians would show awareness of the holidays of my religion. I've never had a non-Muslim congratulate me on the end of Ramadan or on the Eid a-Adha. We could all generally be more considerate of the beliefs and traditions held by the people around us. But I would like to continue to receive Christmas greetings, cards, and gifts. I'm a fully fledged member of society. And I don't live between two cultures, but withtwo cultures. In my view, this is an enriches — and by no means creates an obstacle to — integration. During Ramadan, religious Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset. Eid al-Fitr is the three-day festival that marks the end of this holy month of fasting. It begins on the first day of Shawwal, the month following Ramadan and is also known as Sugar Feast. These cookies might give you an idea why! As part of the celebration traditional sweets and candies are shared with family and friends. These vendors in Peshawar, Pakistan, were prepared for the crowds shortly before Eid al-Fitr in 2016. The days before Eid al-Fitr are among the busiest shopping days of the year. In some predominantly Muslim countries, shoe and clothing vendors offer special sales toward the end of Ramadan. Other traditions are less consumerist: the Zakat-ul-Fitr is money given to the poor in an obligatory act of charity during the festival. Since Eid al-Fitr is celebrated with family, many Muslims return to their home towns for the festival, like these men and women in Indonesia. The exodus, with thousands of people en route to see mom and dad, leads to transport problems and accidents every year. In preparation for special prayer, or Salat, that Muslims attend on the first morning of Eid al-Fitr, they ritually cleanse themselves. Everyone puts on their best clothes and some women decorate their hands and feet with henna. The prayer in the early hours of the first day of Eid al-Fitr, the Salat al Eid, is a celebrated occasion, and one of the most important components of the whole festival. To pray, Muslims gather in a mosque, like here in Istanbul, or in an open gathering place. The open prayer locations range from designated Eidgah, or places where Eid prayers are held on the outskirts of town, to more mundane sites. These Muslims in the northern German city of Hamburg prayed in a gym during Eid al-Fitr in 2016. After the prayer, Muslims visit with family members or friends, host a feast in their own home or celebrate together with many others at community centers. What kind of traditional dishes are served varies from country to country, but in many places, children will get small Eid gifts or money. Author: Carla Bleiker Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.