People who are ready to play Santa Claus in stores or at Christmas markets, even as a paid job, are becoming few and far between in Germany, according to recruitment agencies. Willi Dahmen, who runs one such agency in the northern German city of Celle, told DW on Wednesday that he and other recruiters across Germany were facing a dearth of willing Santas this year. Dahmen said one reason was that many young people were not willing to sacrifice their weekends or holidays to do the work. He also lamented the fact that many Santa Clauses who did take on the job were poorly trained and had cheap costumes that were not up to the role. "What are the children to think?" he said. Strict training In his agency, aspiring Santa Clauses received 4-5 hours of training, in which they learn, among other things, the importance of not smoking or using their smartphones while in costume, Dahmen said. They are also encouraged to learn Christmas songs and poems in case they are requested. The 'Santa Claus of Celle': Willi Dahmen in seasonal garb In addition, he emphasized the importance of a Santa's ability to communicate with children, for example, to convey parents' wishes for certain changes in behavior diplomatically and without inspiring fear. Dahmen stressed that a well-trained Santa Claus could be a real drawcard, speaking of one store in the western city of Bochum that saw the number of children attending a Christmas event rise by 25 percent after a successful appearance by a skilled proponent of the art. In Berlin, the student services organization said in a statement on its website that it was stopping its recruitment of Santas because of a lack of candidates. This is despite the fact that it can be quite well-paid, with Santa Clauses in the capital, Berlin, earning as much as €500 ($567) on Christmas Eve, spokeswoman Jana Judisch told DPA news agency. The Santa shortage comes amid a general lack of skilled labor in Germany. Read more: Finding skilled labor in Germany: 'It's never been so hard' Madrid has held the Santa Claus Race for the past five years. For this year's edition, runners gathered at the Paseo de la Castellana avenue, a major artery that cuts through the western part of the city, near the iconic Parque del Buen Retiro. Runners heeded the call to impersonate Santa, with most wearing some iteration of the famous Christmas costume. It likely helped them keep warm, with morning temperatures in Madrid on Sunday under 5 degrees Celsius (40 degrees Fahrenheit). Children were welcome to attend and participate in the race. Some 2,500 kids came out, with many dressed as elves. The top three finishers in the children's race each received a prize: tickets to a Circlassica, an entertainment show that pays homage to the circus tradition, featuring acrobats and jugglers. Organizers have described the race as the largest of its kind in the world, the Reuters news agency said. Aside from bragging rights, the top three adult finishers of the Santa Race this year received a one-year subscription to Spanish magazine Hola!, a weekly publication that covers celebrity and fashion news. Participants in the race were also supporting cancer research. A portion of their entry fee went to the nonprofit organization Fundacion Intheos, which supports projects in the field of advanced cancer care and research. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez