Ten years after its founding at the level of heads of state and government, the Group of 20 is clearly on the wane as a forum for solving global problems. Set up in 2008 to regulate spiraling financial markets in the midst of a striking crisis, the G20 format has managed to survive. It's not that the idea of finding global solutions to global problems is a bad one, the difficulty is that many of those at the negotiating table have lost the political will to find such answers. Isolation, nationalism and protectionism have increased following the financial crisis as the alleged consequences of globalization that has widely been perceived as unbridled. The leader of this movement is undoubtedly the haphazard US president, Donald Trump. He is an avowed deconstructivist — someone who wants to tear down the existing order because he doesn't think it works in his favor. He simply makes new rules for himself that only apply to him. All that counts is quick, popular success at home, nevermind the rest of the world. Europe correspondent Bernd Riegert But Donald Trump — and here's the crucial point — is not alone. Read more: Opinion: G20 — go back to the roots It gets worse The Russian president, the Saudi crown prince, the Turkish autocrat and the Chinese president at the G20 table don't have much respect for law and justice. And there are more and more representatives joining the "My country first" club. In Mexico, a populist has just taken office. In Brazil, a professed right-wing radical will be moving into the presidential palace come January. These changes don't bode well for the next G20 summit in Osaka, Japan. It's gradually becoming a lonely struggle for the German chancellor, the Canadian prime minister, the French president and EU representatives — those who held up the flag of multilateralism in Buenos Aires. Even within the EU, populism and isolationism are spreading. After Brexit, the most recent example of this shift is the populist government in Italy. Read more: G20 summit opens as leaders give Saudi prince mixed reception Reading the thin communique adopted by G20 members, it appears that this assembly representing two thirds of humanity is little more than an empty shell. Admittedly, the leaders did commit to reforming the international trade system. But in the meantime, members of the G20 impose punitive tariffs on each other in an attempt to get a bigger piece of the global economic pie. There's certainly a wide gulf between theory and practice. Is the end nigh? Trump may soon be the death of the G20, a summit whose plenary meetings he only occasionally took part in. As far as his obsessive security adviser is concerned, the forum is redundant, despite it being the only economically relevant steering committee at the global level. It's difficult to explain to the public and voters at home, if there are any, what the G20 is good for when there is a growing number of insolent lone fighters sitting around the table. Read more: Angela Merkel to miss start of G20 summit after plane's technical difficulties To date, the G20 hasn't even managed to do its quintessential job — namely, to regulate the global taxation of digital companies. In Buenos Aires, fair taxation was once again postponed, at the insistence of the United States, until the summit after Osaka, should it still take place. Downgrading the G20 to the ministerial level, like it was before 2008, or getting rid of it altogether, would be handing a victory to the nationalists that should not be granted. Perhaps the summit will continue in the coming years, but the G20 could easily become a "dead man walking," condemned to political execution. For the Saudi Crown Prince, the G20 will offer little relief. Human Rights Watch has filed complaints against Mohammed bin Salman for the "likely complicity" in the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, among other crimes. In fact, only US President Donald Trump has stuck by the Prince. He doubts bin Salman's guilt. The murder of Khashoggi in Turkey has damaged ties between Salman and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Turkey wants to investigate the murder, which the Saudis don't. Turkish support for Qatar has also hurt the relationship. But Erdogan is dependent on Saudi investments. These two may hold private talks during the summit. One can no longer call these two friends. Too many points of contention have disrupted the relationship: the nearly two-year detention of US Pastor Andrew Brunson, the fate of exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen, who lives in the US, and now the murder of Khashoggi, with Trump actively ignoring Turkey's point of view on the crime. The two biggest economies in the world have been handing each other tariffs and threats for months. Trump has threatened even more tariffs ahead of the G20. The US has accused China, amongst others, of stealing intellectual property. One of the most highly-anticipated events in Argentina is a meeting between Trump and Xi Jinping. Will the two find a solution? No one knows. They have had better times, Trump and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. Even if Trump is trying to have a better relationship, the honeymoon is over. The Ukraine crisis, the war in Syria and accusations of Russian meddling in US elections has seriously damaged ties. Trump canceled a planned one-on-one meeting with Putin at the G20 over recent confrontations with Ukraine. After their first meeting it was clear, a new "bromance" was blossoming between French President Emmanuel Macron and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The pair always make an effort to put their good relationship on show, and emphasize common ground such as the CETA free trade agreement. There is sure to be a hug or two at the G20. At a recent speech in Germany, President Macron warned that the world is threatening to slide into "nationalism without hindsight and fanaticism without values." For him, a united Europe is the answer to "the world's divisions," - and with that, Chancellor Merkel is on his side. The two are always looking for ways to demonstrate solidarity, and want to make policies for a united Europe. Over the summer, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and EU Council President Donald Tusk signed the largest trade pact the EU has ever seen. The free trade agreement showcase global cooperation in the face of the protectionism championed by US President Trump. In Argetina, the EU and Japan are likely to stick together. Author: Rahel Klein