Refresh page for live updates 52' GOAL! Bayern 2-0 Besiktas — Kingsley Coman makes it two! Müller threads a pass through to Lewandowski, who picks out Coman to finish without breaking stride. Bayern in control. 50' OFF THE POST! Lewandowski is fouled on the very edge of the box and gets up to ping a brilliant free-kick against the outside of the post. Fabri was stranded. Brilliant effort. 46' Second half is underway in Munich. HT Now that's a stat. 45' HT Bayern 1-0 Besiktas —Müller's goal at the end of the first half is just reward for their dominance. The ten men of Besiktas will do well to keep this under three in the second half. Besiktas have had their moments, but Bayern are in control of this one. 44' Bayern sub: Robben is on for Rodriguez. The Colombian has not recovered from having the ball smashed in his head at point blank range by Müller. 43' GOAL! Bayern 1-0 Besiktas! Bayern lead through Thomas Müller! Coman gets to the byline and cuts back to Alaba, who helps it on to Müller, who scrambled it in from close range. 39' Quaresma side steps Hummels like he isn't there and drills a shot that Ulreich palsm out for a corner. That's as close as the 10 men of Besiktas have come tonight. 37' Chance for Bayern as Vidal knocks down a deep cross for Lewandowski. The Pole juggles the ball and tries to hook it over his own head into the net, but can't keep it down. Besiktas midfielder Gary Medel has taken a whack to the face for his troubles. 33' Quaresma goes into the book for a late lunge on Coman, who was driving into the box. Bayern starting to put the visitoes under real pressure. 30' CLOSE! Hummels goes close with a thumping header which Fabri reacts brilliantly to, tipping over the bar. It was straight at him, but a top save nonetheless. 24' Thomas Müller will not be on James Rodriguez's Christmas card list this year. Müller has just walloped the ball into the side of Rodriguez's face from five meters away. That's goota hurt! Domagoj Vida receives his marching orders for a foul on Lewandowski. 19' MASSIVE CHANCE FOR BESIKTAS! My oh my, oh has Vagner Love missed this? There's a space big enough to drive a bus between Jerome Boateng and Mats Hummels but Love 16' RED CARD! Besiktas will play the remaining minutes with 10 men, as Vida receives his marching orders for bringing down Lewandowski. 11' CLOSE! Vidal goes even closer with a glancing header after Kimmich was given way too much time to pick out the Chilean. Bayern starting to find their rhythm. 9' Bayern's first real chance of the night falls to Coman, who cuts in from the left and drills a powerful low shot that Fabricio does well to palm to safety. 7' Quaresma whips in a dangerous cross from the right but Ulreich gathers it well. A decent start from the visitors. 4' Besiktas have started positively here. Ryan Babel, formerly of Hoffenheim and Liverpool, looks to have got into a great position on the left, but he drags Kimmich back and Bayern have a free-kick. 1' KICK OFF — And we're off! 20.40 The players are out at the Allianz Arena and we're just about ready to go! 20.25And the Besiktas XI... 20.20 Here's how Bayern line up. Robben and Ribery on the bench. 20.15 Good evening ladies and gentlemen, welcome to live coverage of Bayern Munich versus Besiktas. Team news to come!