John Ausonius - the Swedish convicted killer dubbed "the Laserman" and suspected white supremacist – is facing another life sentence in Frankfurt court on Wednesday for the murder of a Jewish woman more than 25 years ago. Ausonius was charged with shooting dead Blanka Zmigrod, a 68-year-old Holocaust survivor, near her home in February 1992. Ausonius and his defense team have pleaded his innocence until the very last. The only witness to the crime said he never saw the marksman’s face, leading the defense to argue that Ausonius could never be entirely proven guilty. However, prosecutor Nadja Böttinger told the court during Tuesday's plea hearing that the evidence at hand was far too abundant to be considered mere coincidence. Read more: Sweden's 'laser man' goes to trial for murder in Frankfurt If found guilty, Ausonius will be transferred to prison in Germany, where will likely spend the rest of his life. If acquitted, he will be sent back to Sweden to see out the rest of his sentence, which could be just a few more years. Who was 'the Laser man?' Ausonius is facing a second life sentence. He was jailed for life in Sweden in 1995 for the murder of Jimmy Ranjbar, an Iranian national, and attempted murder of nine other immigrants in Stockholm and Uppsala. The shooting spree, coupled with a series of bank robberies spanning from August 1991 to February 1992, had gripped Sweden. Ausonius was given the name "Laser man" by the Swedish press because he used a rifle equipped with a laser sight to carry out the shootings. It was during that time that Ausonius, then Sweden's most wanted fugitive, fled to Germany, holing himself up in Dresden and then Frankfurt. He had initially planned to flee to South Africa although, in circumstances pertinent to the case, he was forced to cancel. He was eventually arrested later that year in Stockholm after committing another bank robbery. During his highly publicized trial, the public learned how Ausonius, born Wolfgang Alexander Zaugg, had been diagnosed with personality disorder, studied chemistry, served in the military, and grew wealthy by trading stock and bonds before plunging into homelessness. Frankfurt crime The Frankfurt prosecution alleges that Ausonius killed Zmigrod in February 1992 following an argument the pair had the day before the incident at a "Mövenpick" restaurant in central Frankfurt, where Zmigrod worked as a cloakroom attendant. Ausonius reportedly accused Zmigrod of stealing an electronic notebook on which, the prosecution alleges, he had stored in important contacts and necessary information needed to pull off his escape to South Africa. According to witness statements, the two got into a heated argument. When Ausonius was told to leave the restaurant, he reportedly told Zmigrod they'd be "seeing each other again." Thirty-six hours later she was dead. German authorities knew that Ausonius was in Frankfurt at the time of Zmigrod’s death, and even began investigating him in connection with the murder back in 1993, before eventually closing the case in 1996. However, in 2014, when federal authorities began looking into old cases that could be connected to the murders committed by the National Socialist Underground (NSU), a German neo-Nazi group, between 2000 and 2007. Piecing evidence together Frankfurt prosecutor Nadja Böttinger told German weekly Stern that when Zmigrod’s file landed on her desk and she began looking into the evidence against Ausonius. "I simply couldn't live with the fact that the investigation had been closed," she said. She then traveled to Sweden to question Ausonius about Zmigrod, where, she said, he behaved very strangely. "He was able to remember many details, but as soon as it concerned something  relevant to the case, he suddenly didn’t know anything." However, since the trial started in December last year, the court has struggled with weighing up whatever little evidence there is that points to Ausonius. The most important piece of evidence is the ammunition that was used in Zmigrod’s killing, which matched the type "the Laserman" used for the shootings in Sweden. While Ausonius admits to having used such a gun, he maintains that he sold the weapon shortly before the day Zmigrod was murdered.