Wolfsburg 1-2 Bayern Munich, Volkswagen Arena (Didavi 8' — Wagner 64', Lewandowski pen 90'+2) Robert Lewandowski came off the bench to score a stoppage time penalty as Bayern Munich were pushed all the way by Wolfsburg. Wolfsburg struck early through Daniel Didavi, who got ahead of Juan Bernat to meet Yunus Malli's cross and nod the ball beyond Sven Ulreich. Franck Ribery was lucky to stay on the field after VAR reviewed an elbow on Renato Steffen as Wolfsburg continued to frustrate Bayern, who welcomed back Thiago Alcantara after a long injury lay-off but benched Robert Lewandowski. Bayern missed the chance to draw level when they were awarded a controversial penalty for a challenge on Corentin Tolisso — Arjen Robben saw his resulting spot kick palmed on to the post superbly by Koen Casteels. But Bayern leveled through a Sandro Wagner header from Robben's cross before Lewandowski converted from the spot to notch up Bayern's 13th straight Bundesliga victory after Robben was dragged down by Gian-Luca Itter. Read more: Wolfsburg 1-2 Bayern Munich: As it happened Thilo Kehrer leaps highest to put Schalke on the path to victory, their first in three games. Schalke 2-1 Hoffenheim, Veltins-Arena (Kehrer 11', Embolo 28' — Kramaric 78') A first half blitz from Schalke was ultimately enough to see off a poor Hoffenheim in Gelsenkirchen. Thilo Kehrer headed Schalke into an early lead and the hosts were celebrating a second four minutes later, only for Embolo's strike to be ruled out by VAR for offside. But Embolo was not to be denied as he struck again, and this time the goal stood as he pounced on a horrible mistake at the back by Hoffenheim's Kevin Vogt. Hoffenheim improved after the break and Andrej Kramaric gave them a lifeline 12 minutes from time with a header from close range, but it was too little too late as Schalke held on to stay in the mix for a Champions League place. Leon Bailey scores the opener for Leverkusen, the 20-year-old's 10th league goal of the season. Hamburg 1-2 Bayer Leverkusen, Volksparkstadion (Hahn 70' — Bailey 40', Havertz 50') Bayer Leverkusen produced a clinical performance in Hamburg where the struggling hosts rallied too late. The Werkself took the lead after Leon Bailey capitalized on hesitation from Douglas Santos, winning the ball in the HSV box and putting Leverkusen ahead ten minutes before the break. Ten minutes after the restart, Kai Havertz stroked home from Benjamin Henrich's cut-back to double Leverkusen's lead. Bernd Hollerbach's side got back in the game through Andre Hahn but Bobby Wood wasted a late chance to equalize. The conditions were tough, but Freiburg picked up a vital win in their must-win game against relegation rivals Werder Bremen. Freiburg 1-0 Werder Bremen, Schwarzwald-Stadion (Petersen pen 24') Freiburg scored and missed a penalty as they edged Werder Bremen in a full-blooded relegation battle. Nils Petersen scored his 12th Bundesliga goal of the season after Johansson bundled Terrazzino to the ground. Freiburg had the chance to make the win safe in the second half, but Janik Haberer stepped up after Petersen was fouled, and his woeful effort flew wide of the post. But it mattered little in the end as Freiburg held on for a vital three points, while Werder Bremen remain mired in the relegation dogfight. Yuya Osako lashes the ball into the roof of the net to give Cologne the lead against Hannover. Cologne 1-1 Hannover, RheinEnergie Stadion (Osako 29' — Füllkrug 37') Cologne were forced to settle for a point when Claudio Pizarro's 94th-minute strike was ruled out by VAR . Cologne had taken a first-half lead when Jonas Hector's free-kick fell to Yuya Osako at the back post, the Japanese forward beating two men before smashing an unstoppable shot into the roof of the net. But Hannover were the better side, recording 15 shots to the hosts' five, and equalized seven minutes later when Niclas Füllkrug capped off a neat move with a clinical finish. Worryingly for Cologne, striker Simon Terodde was carried off in the second half after an unintentional kick in the face from Salif Sane. Robin Quaison nets his and Mainz's second of the night as he proved the matchwinner for the Bundesliga strugglers. Friday Hertha Berlin 0-2 Mainz, Olympic Stadium (Quaison 40', 65') Mainz opened up a six-point cushion between themselves and 17th placed Hamburg with a vital win at Hertha Berlin. The star of the show was Robin Quaison, who netted a goal in each half. His first was a low shot from distance that sneaked inside the near post beyond the slightly unsighted Rune Jarstein. Quaison's second saw him beat the Hertha offside trap and slot the ball through the legs of the advancing Jarstein. The victory ends a run of three consecutive league defeats for Mainz. Read more: Quaison double earns Mainz huge win in Berlin