As Britain debates how to best incorporate European Union law into its own national legislation once it exits the bloc, the governments of Scotland and Wales said on Tuesday they will introduce their own "continuity laws" to prevent London weakening their autonomy as a result of Brexit. New laws will be debated by the devolved parliaments in Edinburgh and Cardiff in the coming days aimed at strengthening regional powers — including agriculture and fisheries — that are currently administered from Brussels because they fall within EU frameworks. The Scottish, Northern Irish and Welsh governments are concerned that the London parliament, which legislates on behalf of the whole of the UK, will seek to pass laws unilaterally that incorporate EU treaties into British national law, denying the three countries a say on key regional policies. Read more: UK must protect Scotch whisky post-Brexit, says Scottish official Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2hXMi The three nations have been negotiating with London over exactly how the EU powers will be returned, but have reached a stumbling block. Back-up plan Scotland and Wales' new legislation seeks to ensure a back-up in case no deal can be reached, the two governments said. Northern Ireland's government is currently suspended amid a deadlock over power sharing between Irish nationalists and unionists. The territory faces its own Brexit issues, as it shares a border with EU member the Republic of Ireland, which Brussels, Dublin and London have pledged to keep open. Read more: Irexit: Brexit's Nigel Farage takes fight to Ireland The British government must finalize a deal with Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales before the summer in order to pass its own European Union (Withdrawal) Bill in the national parliament. But after months of wrangling, it indicated on Monday that it would offer no further concessions to the three countries, citing risks to national unity. The Welsh government said British Prime Minister Theresa May's current plans would allow London to take control of laws and policy areas that are handled by the devolved governments. "This is simply not acceptable to the Welsh government, or the people of Wales who have voted for devolution in two referendums," the Cardiff-based institution said. Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon is ready to call a new independence referendum if she doesn't get to maintain devolved powers from London By introducing its own bill now, Scotland said it wanted to give its own government "the tools needed to make sure these laws keep working after withdrawal." Independence bid threatened Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also warned that she retains "a mandate" to hold a second independence referendum if London tries to impose its will on Scotland. Read more: Brexit: Jeremy Corbyn wants UK in EU customs union The row has the potential to open up a full-blown constitutional crisis, with some legal analysts accusing Scotland and Wales' governments of overreaching their powers, while the process of establishing whether the continuity laws are binding could take weeks or even months. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland won devolved powers from London in the late 1990s after decades of demands for more autonomy. Plans to extend devolution to regions of England were never enacted. In the 2016 Brexit referendum, Scotland and Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU, while Wales voted to leave. On Wednesday, EU Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier will unveil a long-awaited draft of the Brexit divorce treaty, which is likely to rankle with British ministers, as it seeks to hold the UK to European Court of Justice judgments in the settlement of disputes over the future trade relationship between the two sides. mm/se (AFP, Reuters)