+++ Please refresh for the latest (All times CET) +++ Gold Medal Events Day 11 04:55 - What an amazing competition we have happening here. After the Italian's delivered a very strong 108.34, the Shibutani siblings deliver an impressive performance. That just leaves the big three... 04:43- The moment all the ice fans have been waiting for! The final group are onto the ice, and this off the back of a stunning performance from OAR's Ekaterina Bobrova and Dmitri Soloviev (111.45 in the free dance, 186.92 total). 04:19 - Ice hockey has also started on Day 11. In the men's tournament, the US are battling Slovakia for a spot in the quarterfinal against the Czech Republic. It's 0-0 six minutes into the first. Elsewhere, Sweden are leading the United Korean team 1-0 in the battle to decide the wooden spoon. 04:07 - The men's curling is done for the day. GB got a big win over Norway (10-3), while there were also wins for Canada, South Korea and Sweden. The women's round robin starts in a couple of hours. 04:04 - One medal down, another fast approaching. Guignard and Fabbri's score stood top for a while, but the competition is hotting up and Canada's Piper Gilles and Paul Poirier just delivered 107.31 to take top spot after dancing their routine to a smart James Bond Medley. This crowd was certainly shaken and stirred by that performance. 03:54 - GOLD for Canada! There was no stopping Cassie Sharpe in the Ladies' halfpipe. In her first Olympics, the 25-year-old has taken the gold medal ahead of France's Marie Martinod, who also took silver in Sochi. America's Brita Sigourney took bronze for the US. Germany's Sabrina Cakmakli finished in 8th, with a best run score of 74.20. Sharpe's gold is Canada's seventh of the Games and their second in freestyle skiing events. 03:47 - Today is also the final day of training in the Ladies' Downhill. Austria's Ramona Siebenhofer has the fastest time, with Lindsey Vonn in fourth, one place ahead of Mikaela Shiffrin. Austria's Lara Gut finished in 7th. They go for gold tomorrow. 03:42 - Well, no one likes to see this. Defending champion Maddie Bowman crashes on her final run and is in tears by the time she reaches the bottom of the course. Hopefully she's not hurt, but it has been a tough day for her nonetheless. The crowd applauds her off. 03:32 The final run is underway in the halfpipe and the only question is, can Sharpe go even better? 03:23 - Smells like gold to me! After Martinod delivers a 92.60 to challenge Sharpe, the Canadian comes down and posts 95.80! Surely no stopping her now... 03:15 - Into the second run in the halfpipe. Some of the tricks out there are just remarkable, and the risk shouldn't be forgotten either... 03:01 - I don't know what wow is in Italian but the Italian pair of Charlene Guignard and Marco Fabbri just delivered it in the figure skating, taking top spot (for now) with a score of 105.31 - that would have seen them finish in 4th in the last Olympics. Just to let you know, really top scores will be around the 114+ mark. The bronze medal though, seems very much up for grabs... 02:50 - Early doors in the halfpipe, but the defending champion Maddie Bowman (US) has the lowest recorded score so far. France's Marie Martinod, silver medalist in Sochi, just delivered a huge run with a score of 92.20 but even that isn't good for top spot because Canada's Cassie Sharpe just posted 94.40. What a start in the first run! 02:31 - The Ladies' Ski Halfpipe final has also started. There are three runs to decide the winner there. A long time before the medal will be decided, but that means plenty of amazing tricks to enjoy. 02:24 - With the best yet to come, the early performances are impressive but perhaps painful for the pairings that will look back on yesterday's scoring in the short dance with a little regret. Germany's Kavita Lorenz and Joti and Polizoakis post the best score so far and lead with a total score of 150.49. Quite a popular theme too it seems... 02:07 - The second part of the ice dance is about to start - and by the end, we'll know who the new Olympic Champion is. The second part is a free dance to follow on from yesterday's short dance routine. In yesterday's action, Canadian pair Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir impressively broke their own world record and look in pole position to take gold. They'll be tested by French pair of Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron, who might have even finished first were it not for a costume malfunction. After new records and nudity, what has the ice dance got in store for us today? 01:46 - The curling action has started in Pyeongchang with the 10th session of the men's round robin. Currently approaching the fourth end, Sweden (who have already qualified) lead Italy 4-0, while third-placed Great Britain are beating Norway 4-0. Defending Olympic champions Canada re surprisingly 2-1 down to Japan. 01:30 - Good morning! Welcome to Day 11 of the Winter Olympics. Can you believe the drama in the 2-man bobsleigh yesterday? Just incredible.What the Olympics are all about.As for the action today, we have two early morning medals to look forward to, with the second part of the ice dance and the Ladies' Ski Halfpipe. There's also curling and ice hockey as the Games approaches a grand finale. Stay up and in touch with us on Day 11! Tweet us or drop us a line on Facebook to let us know what you think of the Games so far!