Day 6 schedule highlights (Times CET): +++ Refresh page for updates +++  6.44 Shiffrin takes gold in the women's giant slalom Just like that! Mikaela Shiffrin does what everybody expected and wins the giant slalom after a fantastic second run. She came down in 1.09.20, giving her a combined time of 2.20.02. Norway's Ranghild Mowinckel took silver while Federica Brignone maintained her first run form to claim bronze. 6.30 Men's and women's hockey scores USA's women outmuscled Canada's in a tight affair in Kwandong, while Germany's men took a pounding from the Fins. 5.51 The women's giant slalom is back up and running! Here's Mikaela Shiffrin with a piglet to celebrate. 5.50 Things aren't going quite so well in the hockey... 5.30 Germany win pairs skating gold! Out of nowhere! German duo Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot fend off China and OAR to claim gold in the pairs free skating, setting a world record score in the process. They were fourth after the opening short discipline, but a phenomenal showing in the free skating round was enough to push them beyond reach. It was a nervy wait, however, as previous big hitters China and Russia were the final two teams to perform. They broke down in tears after hearing the news. Just brilliant! 5.07 Aksel Lund Svindal wins men's downhill gold! He's done it! It was a painful wait for Svindal as dozens of competitors still had to take their turn but, in the end, none of them were at his level. What a fantastic performance to claim (surprisingly!) Norway’s first men’s downhill gold medal at a Winter Games. It's a Norwegian gold-silver duo too, as Kjetil Jansrud holds on to second spot. Switzerland's Ben Fuez grabs bronze. Let's take a look at those times. 4.45 Finland on top in the hockey after a cagey first quarter It's 2-1 to Finland after the first period. It's a close, physical game in Gangneung, with the referee constantly forced to intervene. You've gotta love Olympic hockey! You'd have thought all the fisticuffs was an NHL thing but it really isn't. All hockey players love a scrap, apparently. Germany take on Finland at the Geungnang hockey centre 4.38 Men's downhill update This really is a cracking event. Aksel Lund Svindal remains in pole position with a time of 1.40.25, followed by compatriot Kjetil Jansrud (1.40.37).  Swiss world champion Ben Feuz (1.40.43) occupies the bronze medal position. These are some seriously fine margins given the size of the run. 27 skiiers still to go! 4.31 Italy take the lead in the pairs skating Scrap that last post. Italian duo Valetina Marchei and Ondrej Hortarek have stormed into pole position with a score of 142.09. OAR go next and knock the Candian's down to bronze position after scoring 138.53. This has been an awful ten minutes for Canadian pair skaters. Not long to go now. I'll keep you posted! 4.17 Gold and bronze for Canada's pairs skaters? There's a fair amount going on in Pyeongchang and I have no co-pilot with me this evening, so forgive me for the belated update. We are well over halfway through the event, with 11 of the 16 pairs having already performed. The top 3 are as follows. 4.11 Germany take on Finland at hockey That's right! The hockey is just getting underway, with Germany facing Finland in Gangneung and USA taking on Canada (what a match-up!) in Kwandong. Now, I don't claim to be a hockey aficionado but my money's on Finland (cold!) and USA (NHL!). But what do I know? 4.05 Women's giant slalom run one results That's it for run one in the slalom. No movement in the medal positions since the previous update. Mikaela Shiffrin - alpine skiing's answer to Lionel Messi - is sandwiched between the two Italians and has it all to do in the final run at 5.45. The highest ranked German is Viktoria Rebensburg, who sits just down in eighth with a time of 1.11.45. 3.45 The curling scores are in! After ten thrilling ends in the women's round robin event, the scores are... Huge result for USA after a nailbiting encounter with Team GB. The sort of match that explains the level of hype around the curling during these games. The standout match had to be China v OAR, though, with the latter edging a close encounter after an eleventh end. Brilliant drama! 3.43 Norway double in the men's downhill? It is a Norwegian one-two at the moment in the men's downhill. Kjetil Jansrud is 0.12 seconds behind team-mate Aksel Lund Svindal. What a performance from the Norwegians. Only 15 from 57 participants have gone so far. I'll keep you updated should anything change in the medal positions. 3.14 Women's giant slalom update 57 of our 81 slalomers have now gone and the leaderboard is beginning to take shape. Golden girl Mikaela Shiffrin is currently nesteld between two Italians in second place. Remember, they all have to go again in the final run at 5.45am. The two times will be added together to produce their final overall time. 3.07 Men's skeleton scores Heat one of four in the men's skeleton is done and dusted. Let's take a look at the final scores: 2.30 Curling update! Here are the scores as the women's curling round robin event edges into the 6th end. It's kicking off, as Team GB and USA slog it out in a nailbiting showdown. Denmark have pulled things level, after having been down three-zip, while South Korea are clearly feeding off good vibes from the buoyant home crowd. Who doesn't love a bit of curling at half two in the morning? 2.12 The women's giant slalom is off Finally! After Pyeongchang was hit by windy conditions earlier this week - windy conditions which overstayed their welcome, one might add - the skiing events are back on. Just to set the scene, there will be two runs for each of the 81 participants in this event. The first at 2am CET and the second at 5.45. Mikaela Shiffrin, who many believe could be the greatest skiier (male or female!) in history, sets off seventh out of the 81 skiiers. She clocks a time of 1.10.82 - enough for second place. Currently leading is Italy's Manuela Molgg (1.10.62). Updates to follow! 2.02 and we're off! Jamaica's Anthony Watson kicks things off with a time of 53.13. He's immediately knocked-off top spot by Romania's Dorin Levicu (51.91). There are 30 riders to go in men's heat one. I'll get watching and share the leaderboard once they've all hurtled, face first, down the mountainside. 01.59 Time for the men's skeleton I'll be sure to keep you abreast of curling developments but attention now turns to the men's skeleton. Surely the most terrifying sport ever cooked up? I'm excited! Don't know who to root for? Try Akwasi Frimpong! He's the first Ghanaian to ever participate in this event. He's a snappy dresser too! 1.51 The curling is getting tense After Team GB took an early lead over USA in the women's round robin, they now find themselves 2-1 down in the fourth end. A superb fight back from the Americans. Elsewhere in the round robin event, it's 1-1 between Canada and South Korea, China lead OAR 3 to 1, while Japan are crushing Denmark 3-0. Ouch! There's still a long way to go though! Hold on to your hats... 1.22 The curling is underway Canada and South Korea are locked in a gripping showdown and the home side lead 1-0 after the first end. There are 10 ends in a curling match (but you knew that, of course!). In other news, who knew Mr. T was such a big fan of curling? 0.57 A quick weather update... We notice it conveniently doesn't include any information about wind speed... 0.55 First up, a spot of curling That's right. The first stop on our day 6 journey is to Gangneung for the women's curling round robin. Here are the opening fixtures, which begin at 1.05: Some big games there! 0.45 Here we go again... Wakey wakey, rise and shine! Welcome to the Pyeongchang live blog, where we'll be bringing you the latest news, drama, weather reports (for the love of god, let it be calm!) and medal updates from the slopes of South Korea. Day 5 was a blast, but that's ancient history now as we turn our attention to some long-overdue skiing events. The ladies' slalom kicks-off at 2.00, which means we should finally get to see US slalom queen Mikaela Shiffrin in action. We can't wait! 