Thousands of fans have taken to the streets of Mumbai to farewell Bollywood star, Sridevi Kapoor, who died over the weekend after drowning in her bath tub. Some mourners carried photos of the screen star, while others held flowers as they waited to pay their last respects at a condolence service. "No matter how long I have to wait, I will wait," said a fan named Prashnat, clutching a small bunch of flowers. "I'll wait until I'm able to pay my respects. I saw all her movies." "It's a shock to believe that she is no more. We want to pay her one last visit today and thank her for all her wonderful performances," said Nandini Rao, a 32-year-old teacher. Several fans chanted prayers as Sridevi's body was brought the short distance from her home to be laid out at a private club nearby. Hindi film stars, including actresses Aishwarya Rai and Kajol, turned out to pay their respects. Sridevi's body was flown back to Mumbai late Tuesday night in a private jet owned by Anil Ambani, a Mumbai industrialist and entertainment baron. Thousands have taken to the streets to offer their condolences at a makeshift memorial in Mumbai She had been in Dubai attending a family wedding, when she lost consciousness while taking a bath and accidentally drowned. She was 54-years-old. Police authorities ruled out any foul play and released the body to Sridevi's family. Her family issued a statement asking people to join them in paying respects to the "remarkable actor, beloved wife and loving mother" at the club near her home in Mumbai, NDTV news channel reported. She is expected to be cremated on Wednesday afternoon in a private Hindu ceremony. Bereaved fans carried photo of the late film star Bollywood legend Sridevi, who used only one name onscreen, began her film career as a child actress. She later starred in southern Indian regional films before her Bollywood breakthrough in the late 1970s. By the late 1980s, she was at the peak of her career. She was able to command top billing, starring as the lead female role in hit films such as "Chandi" and "Mr India." In the male-dominated Indian film industry, she is praised for having redefined the heroine's role, which had mainly consisted of a few songs and a couple of romantic scenes as the leading man's love interest. cl/kms (AFP, AP, dpa) Sridevi was one of the biggest Bollywood stars in the 1980s. She acted in a number of films that were huge commercial hits. She also campaigns against the sexual abuse of children. Rajesh Khanna is considered the superstar of the Indian film industry. He made a record with 15 consecutive hits in the 1970's leaving his everlasting mark in the history of Bollywood. The actor, who became a politician after retiring from films, passed away in July 2012. Vandana Luthra is known for her chain of holistic, scientific and completely natural weight management centers. She is also known for helping the victims of the 2005 tsunami. In India, Rahul Dravid is a role model for millions of children aspiring to become cricketers. He is considered to be one of the greatest batsmen India has produced. He is one of the few cricketers who scored over ten thousand runs in test cricket. Sharmila Tagore chaired the Indian film industry's censor board committee for six years. A veteran actress herself, Tagore has won many accolades for her work. In December 2005, she was chosen as the UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. Ritu Kumar is known for designing clothes for famous celebrities around the world. Her outfits have been worn by Princess Diana and Jemima Khan. Author: Roma Rajpal