More than 100 people were killed on Tuesday as Syrian and Russian forces pounded a rebel-held Damascus suburb for the second day, bringing the death toll in the past 48 hours to at least 250 civilians. Another 1,200 people people were injured in a combination of air strikes, rocket fire, and shelling on eastern Ghouta in the past two days, the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported. Rebels and analysts say the regime is preparing a major ground offensive to retake the rebel-held enclave of some 400,000 people, which is surrounded and under siege since 2013. Read more: Which rebel groups are fighting in Syria's Eastern Ghouta? Eastern Ghouta is one of four "de-escalation zones" drawn up by Russia, Iran and Turkey to lower violence in the country, but the conflict in the enclave has not abated. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad appears bent on retaking the pocket of rebel territory so close to the capital. For most of the civil war, the regime has prefered to seige and starve eastern Ghouta - while alongside rebels profiting from a war economy -- rather than engaging in a frontal assault. The Syrian opposition said they were seeking to talk to Russian officials, who may be able to pressure Damascus into halting the attack. Two rebel factions signed onto the truce deal last year, which doesn't include al-Qaeda's Syria affiliate. A wounded man is carried following an air strike on the rebel-held besieged town of Arbin, in the eastern Ghouta region on the outskirts of the capital Damascus Russia and Damascus are using a jihadist presence in eastern Ghouta as a pretext to launch an offensive, rebels there said. "We are trying to do whatever we can do by negotiations with the Russians themselves ... to interfere to stop these massacres," Syrian opposition representative Nasr al-Hariri told the DPA news agency. "Now the situation in Ghouta is getting more complicated and more catastrophic without any response until this moment from the international community," said the official, whose Army of Islam rebel faction controls parts of the enclave. Syrian state media said that rebels in eastern Ghouta had fired mortars at districts of Damascus, killing a child and wounding eight others. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday that Moscow and its allies could "deploy our experience of freeing Aleppo ... in the eastern Ghouta situation." Lavrov blamed "armed provocations" by Nusra militants, formerly linked to al Qaeda, for current conditions in eastern Ghouta. UN warns of war crimes in Syria after 'one of the bloodiest periods' in conflict  Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to many civilians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is facing defeat in both countries after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks for the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. Iran had supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad before the conflict emerged in 2011. Eager to maintain its influence in the Middle East, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson Spiraling out of control' Concern is mounting that the seige of eastern Ghouta could turn into a repeat of the battle for Aleppo, which was restored to government control in December 2016 after a brutal pro-regime onslaught. Tens of thousands of people trapped in eastern Ghouta have gone months without basic food, medicine or supplies. The latest escalation in fighting has left civilians trapped between starvation and bombings.  At least seven hospitals have also been hit by Syrian or Russian airstrikes. "The humanitarian situation of civilians in East Ghouta is spiraling out of control," said United Nations regional coordinator for the Syria crisis Panos Moumtzis. "Many residents have little choice but to take shelter in basements and underground bunkers with their children." "It's imperative to end this senseless human suffering," he added. In Geneva, UNICEF issued a blank statement on the suffering of children in Ghouta, saying it had run out of words. "Do those inflicting the suffering still have words to justify their barbaric acts?" they asked. cw,av,dj/aw (AFP, Reuters, DPA) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.