The anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) party removed leader Henry Bolton following criticism of his leadership and a scandal about racist comments made by his lover. At an extraordinary general meeting in the central English city of Birmingham, activists voted by 867 to 500 ballots to endorse a no-confidence vote. Bolton (right) has broken up with girlfriend, Jo Marney (left), since the racist comments were publicized Bolton, 54, had a public falling-out with the party's national executive committee, which sought to remove him after he left his wife and began an affair with his 25-year-old lover, Jo Marney. Marney made racially offensive comments about Prince Harry's fiancee Meghan Markle in text messages sent to a friend and leaked to the Daily Mail newspaper last month. Bolton has since ended the relationship with his girlfriend but the affair prompted a string of senior UKIP politicians to resign over his leadership. Outgoing party chairman Paul Oakden said that 63 percent of 1,378 ballots cast had been to remove Bolton, who had been elected as the party's fourth leader in a year in September. "Henry Bolton has been removed by the democratic decision of the membership," Oakden told the audience. A new leadership election must now be held within 90 days. Bolton keen to stay in politics Bolton was the third elected leader since the party's most-recognized politician, Nigel Farage, stepped down in 2016. "I'm slightly disappointed... It's not a great feeling," Bolton, a former army officer, told British broadcaster Sky News, but he did not rule out running for the position of leader again. "You can't keep a good man down, I'm not finished in politics, it's just one of those bumps in the road." Bolton had, however, earlier warned that the turmoil over his removal could now break the party, saying: "I think it's going to be very difficult for the party to survive." Quo vadis, UKIP? UKIP was originally founded in 1991 as the "Anti-Federalist League," a platform for euroskeptic voters. Under the former leadership of Farage, the party was heavily involved in bringing about the Brexit referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union in 2016, which resulted in the UK's decision to leave the bloc next year. The party, however, has since been dogged by infighting, financial problems and falling public support. UKIP won just 2 percent of votes in last year's general election. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. The former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that 'Brexit means Brexit.' May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline splits talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needs to pay into the EU budget after it leaves - the "Brexit Bill," the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could guarantee an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Ahead of the third round at the end of August, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker lashed out at London for publishing multiple "position papers." Some papers were about the future EU-UK trading relationship, which Juncker said could not be discussed before an agreement on the three phase one issues. Round three ended with some progress on citizens' rights, but none on the Brexit Bill. Theresa May had tried to breathe new life into talks ahead of the fourth round with a speech in Florence, Italy in mid-September. She agreed to a transition phase after March 2019 in which Britain would accept EU rules until a final exit. But round four ended without any notable progress and arch-Brexiteer Nigel Farage said May had stuck "two fingers" at leave voters for accepting a transition. Theresa May spoke at her party's annual conference at the beginning of October and reiterated that Britain would be willing to leave the EU with no final deal. But she did not speak about the disagreements that were still plaguing talks in Brussels. Round five ended a week later with no agreement on the Brexit Bill and no sign that the EU was willing to start phase two talks in the coming months. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Ireland has repeatedly said it won't accept any "hard" border with Northern Ireland after Brexit. Britain agreed in early December there would be no hard border, but didn't say how it would avoid that outcome. It didn't matter. That, along with agreements on money and citizens' rights, was good enough for the EU to say it would give the green light for starting phase 2. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2. Talks will now focus on a transition period and the future trading relationship between the two sides. While the Britain's Theresa May expressed her delight, European Council President Donald Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks will be "dramatically difficult." Author: Alexander Pearson ss/jm (Reuters, AFP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.