Student Anahita Rehbein from the southwestern city of Stuttgart won the Miss Germany 2018 competition on Saturday. "It is a dream come true for me. I could hug the whole world," she said. The 23-year-old beat out 21 other competitors between the ages of 16 and 28. In addition to the crown, she won a compact car, jewelry, travel and clothing for a year. Alena Krempl (R) and Sarah Zahn (L) came in second and third, respectively. Rehbein was previously Miss Baden-Württemberg. Read more: Miss Germany: A century of beautiful women Second place went to 24-year-old trade clerk Alena Krempl from Montabaur in Rhineland Palatinate. Third place went to 21-year-old pre-school teacher Sarah Zahn from Dachau in Bavaria. Miss Germany is the oldest beauty contest in Germany, selecting one winner every year since 1927. The Miss Germany contest was founded in 1927. Winner Hildegard Kwandt, 21, was crowned with a wreath of flowers in Berlin's Sportpalast venue. The jury was made up of well-known, respected men from Berlin, including filmmaker Fritz Lang and sculptor Ernesto de Fiori. In 1931, 18-year-old Daisy von Freyberg became Miss Germany. She was an actress and had played in the 1929 box office hit "Pandora's Box." She belonged to a noble family, but it wasn't considered appropriate at the time for nobility to work in the entertainment industry, which is why she took the pseudonym Daisy d'Ora. She passed away in June 2010 at the age of 96. The first Miss Germany pageant after World War II was held in 1950 and won by Susanne Erichsen. The Berlin model later immigrated to the US and was seen as the epitome of the post-war German woman: young, attractive, modern and confident. She embodied German society's return to Western fashion and consumerism after years of dearth. In 1956 in London, Petra Schürmann became the first German to win the Miss World contest, although she'd only come in third in the Miss Germany pageant. The prize gave a boost to her career as a TV presenter, model and actor. In 2001, her daughter was killed in a tragic car accident. After that, Schürmann largely avoided the public eye. She passed away in 2010 at the age of 76. In Baden-Baden in 1957, Gerti Daub received the Miss Germany crown. In the post-war and pre-waif period, 85-54-95 centimeters were still considered ideal measurements for a woman. Daub took third in the Miss Europe contest and fifth in the Miss Universe pageant in California. The Hamburg native remained a beauty icon into the 1950s and was considered to be Germany's Grace Kelly. In 1991, Ines Kuba became the first Miss Germany to wear her hair short. She is pictured here with Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher at the annual Press Ball in Berlin. Kuba later supported Helmut Kohl in his election campaign in 1998, which he lost. Growing up in East Germany, she wanted to become a pre-school teacher or aerobics trainer, but later worked for the Miss Germany Corporation. Known then by her maiden name Feldbusch, Verona Pooth's breakthrough came in 1993 when she won the Miss Germany contest. The same year, she was also crowned Miss Intercontinental World, and in 1995 she also became Miss American Dream. Together with Petra Schürmann, she remains one of the most famous former Misses and has since enjoyed an extensive advertising and television career. Miss Germany 2016 is Lena Bröder. The 27-year-old is studying to be a religion teacher. During her year at Miss Germany, she met Pope Francis and published a book called "Das Schöne in mir - Mit Glaube zum Erfolg" (The beauty in me - How religion can bring success). Eighteen-year-old student Soraya Kohlmann has been crowned "Miss Germany" for 2017. The blonde beauty beat out 20 other competitors to claim the title. "I hope to represent Germany with warmth and honesty," Kohlmann said after her victory. Anahita Rehbein, a 23-year-old student, has been crowned Miss Germany. "I could hug the whole world," she said after coming out ahead of the other 21 competitors. "It is a dream come true for me," she said. Author: Nina Wuttke (kbm) cw/sms (dpa)