The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has not discussed nominating the unified Korean hockey team for the Nobel peace prize, the body's spokesman said on Tuesday after an IOC member said she had received support for the idea. "From an IOC administrative level there's been no consideration whatsoever of this," spokesman Mark Adams said. Angela Ruggiero, an American IOC executive member and former Olympic hockey gold medalist, had said other IOC members voiced support for the idea after she suggested it. "We should recognize them [the unified hockey team] in some capacity. Whether it's the Nobel peace prize or something else ... it deserves some sort of recognition," she said. Read more: Historic handshake marks Korean unity at Olympic Opening Ceremony Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sRuc 'Peace Olympics' North and South Korean players have been playing in a unified Korean hockey team at this year's Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. The historic decision was part of a broader effort by Seoul and Pyongyang to improve ties following heightened tensions in the wake of North Korea's ballistic missile and nuclear weapons tests at the end of 2017. On Monday, the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, Kim Yo Jong, met South Korean President Moon Jae In during a hockey game between the unified Korea team and Switzerland. Jong, who subsequently invited Moon to visit Pyongyang, was the first member of the North's ruling dynasty to visit the South since the end outbreak of the Korean War in 1950. The opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyongchang was held at the Olympic Stadium, starting with fireworks on a frigid evening in South Korea. While the weather was often too warm in the previous two Games in Vancouver and Sochi, this should not be a problem this time around. As is the case with all Olympic hosts, South Korea took the opportunity presented by the opening ceremony to present something of its culture and traditions to the world. As is the tradition at both the Winter and Summer Olympic Games, Greece, the ancient home of the Olympics, are the first contingent to enter the stadium for the opening ceremony. Alpine skier Sophia Ralli led what is a realtively small Greek continent into the stadium in Pyeongchang. The dignitaries watched the opening ceremony from their own VIP stand. Bottom left is German International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach, to his right, South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany is represented by President Frank-Walter Steinmeier (top right). German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier was witness to a little bit of history as Kim Yo Jong, sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shook the hand of South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany were led into the Olympic stadium by nordic-combined gold medalist from Sochi four years ago, Eric Frenzel. Germany's flagbearer was chosen in part by a popular vote on the internet, as he beat four other nominees. Ghana has sent an athlete to the Winter Olympic Games for just the second time. Akwasi Frimpong, who will be competing in the Skeleton, carried the flag into the Olympic Stadium. Downhill skier Kwame Nkrumah-Acheampong had previously represented Ghana at the 2010 Vancouver Games. There are also several other Africans competing at the Games, including from South Africa, Nigeria and Eritrea. The International Olympic Committee has banned Russia from these Winter Games over its alleged state-sponsored doping program. However, 169 carefully screened athletes have been invited to compete under a neutral flag. The "Olympic Athletes from Russia" followed the Olympic flag into the stadium. Tongan cross-country skier Pita Taufatofua stole the show when he entered the stadium bare-chested, despite sub-zero temperatures. The 34-year-old had caused a stir at the 2016 Rio Games when he oiled himself up and went topless as Tonga's flag-bearer. Taufatofua, who competed in taekwondo in Rio, had originally planned to keep his shirt on in the freezing cold — but obviously changed his mind... In a gesture of peace, the host South Koreans entered the stadium together with their neighbors from North Korea. The athletes from the bitter rivals marched into the venue under a unified Korean flag. IOC President Thomas Bach used his short address to thank the Koreans for entering as a united team. He also called on the around 3,000 athletes to "inspire us all to live together in peace and harmony despite all the differences we have." Then he gave way to South Korean President Moon, who declared the Winter Games open. There was a time when an athlete could simply walk up to the cauldron with a torch and light the Olympic Flame. Now, though, no self-respecting host would allow the Flame to be lit in such a mundane manner. South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna, who won gold in Vancouver and silver in Sochi, lit the fuse, setting off a tower of fire that shot up to the Olympic cauldron — lighting the Olympic Flame. Author: Chuck Penfold amp/rc (AFP, dpa)