Eppingen's carnival season "Witches' Dance" which involves 2,000 people in masks and costumes, was the site of a serious accident on Saturday, police reported in the southern German town on Sunday night. Police spokeswoman Corinna Lüke said an 18-year-old spectator, who was also dressed as a witch, had been lifted on to a farm trailer where costumed revelers stood around a closed cauldron holding hot water. Since the Middle Ages, the number eleven has represented excess and sin. A number like this with repeated digits is known as a Schnapszahl (schnapps number) in German. The term's origins seem to be linked either with seeing double when drunk or with drinking games. And revelers will certainly be boozing it up in the coming weeks, until it's all over on Ash Wednesday. This jester-like figure is typical of Düsseldorf. At 11:11 a.m. on the dot, the Hoppeditz climbs out of a mustard pot in front of the town hall and heralds the start of the fifth season. Afterwards, people adjourn to the pubs in the old town, where they celebrate the new carnival session by singing, dancing and drinking. In most of the carnival strongholds, a royal couple reigns over the festivities. In Cologne, it's a trio, consisting of a maiden, a prince and a farmer. Nobody seems to mind that this trio consists entirely of men. With three shouts of "Alaaf," the magnificently costumed triumvirate are celebrated by their willing subjects. The Mainz carnival season opens with cries of "Helau." The typical giant papier-mâché heads called "Schwellköppe", or "swollen heads", are always part of the big procession. Everyone heads to the Carnival Fountain where the fools' constitution is read out. Article 4 declares that "every fool who is also foolish when sober is to be praised." Rumor has it that carnival is celebrated only in western Germany. The eastern German city of Cottbus proves that's not the case. On 11/11, the dancers known as Funkenmariechen kick up their heels and the mayor hands over the key to the city. After the raucous beginning of the carnival season on 11/11, things quiet down during Advent. But in the new year, the revellers turn up the volume again: the carnival societies invite people to their big stage shows and balls. More or less humorous speeches are delivered, revellers sway to the music, sing and laugh. On Weiberfastnacht, Old Wives' Day, carnival really gets into gear: on the Thursday before Shrove Monday - of course at 11:11 a.m. - women storm the town halls. The street carnival takes off. Now revellers party on the streets and squares. The six "crazy days" begin. Of course, men can also party along on Weiberfastnacht, but they should watch out: traditionally women chop off their neckties. Still, at least they get a Bützchen, or little kiss, in exchange, as a sign that it's all in good fun. The parades on Rose Monday, or Shrove Monday, are the highlight of the carnival season, especially in the Rhineland cities. Thousands of onlookers line the streets when the themed floats go past and the revellers on them throw flowers and sweets to the crowds. The hand-carved masks are already an unmistakeable sign that carnival in southwestern Germany differs from that on the Rhine. The large processions on Shrove Monday and Tuesday are called Narrensprünge - literally "fools' jump." Participants hop and jump through the streets. Rottweil's Narrensprung (photo) is famous. The Hoppeditz opens the carnival season in Düsseldorf and also ends it. Traditionally the roguish figure is burned in effigy or buried in a coffin on Ash Wednisday amid weeping and wailing. It's coupled with the hope that the Hoppeditz will rise again and usher in the "fifth season" the next time November 11th rolls around. Author: Kerstin Schmidt (ms) "Another witch opened the cauldron and held the 18-year-old over it," Lüke told SWR news. "In the process, for reasons unknown, the legs of the young woman fell into the cauldron and as a result the 18-year-old suffered severe injuries." Police said the woman had stood up to her knees in the hot water. A helicopter then flew her to a special clinic where she was treated for her injuries. Marking 'Fasnacht' Eppingen, a town of 21,000, lies northwest of Stuttgart, near Heilbronn, in Baden-Württemberg state. It was the 16th edition of the carnival or 'Fasnacht' celebration and involved 77 groups or "combos" - from as far away as French Alsace, according to organizers and the newspaper Heilbronner Stimme. Klaus Holaschke, Eppingen's Mayor told the newspaper: "Something like this should never happen." The incident is to be discussed in the city hall on Monday, he added. Fasnacht or Fasching processions and events, marking the start of the traditional fasting period prior to Easter, are often celebrated with wooden masks across parts of southern Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg. ipj/jm (dpa, SWR)