RB Leipzig 0-2 Napoli 3-3 on aggregate, RB Leipzig through on away goals. (Zielinski 33', Insigne 86') RB Leipzig's hot and cold season continued on Thursday night as they fell to Napoli in front of their home fans. But the shaky performance mattered little as a strong display in the first leg ensured their progression in the Europa League. That 3-1 victory in Italy showed Leipzig at their riveting best, and the hosts knew one goal in the return leg would all but end the contest. Read more: Late Schmelzer strike keeps Dortmund in Europe That confidence saw them start on the front foot, looking lively going forward and stifling Napoli's attack effectively. And they almost had the opener after just 14 minutes, Marcel Sabitzer's shot headed onto the crossbar by Napoli defender Lorenzo Tonelli. Lorenzo Insigne scores Napoli's second of the night, but Leipzig hung on for the aggregate victory. But from that point Napoli took control, their dangerous attacking trio of Lorenzo Insigne, Piotr Zielinski and Dries Mertens clicking into gear as the game progressed. In the 33rd minute, slick movement and quick feet saw Napoli make the breakthrough. Marek Hamsik played centrally to Mertens, whose flicked pass found a goal-bound Insigne. The Italy international's shot was saved by Leipzig keeper Peter Gulacsi, but only as far as Zielinski, who prodded home to give Napoli a 1-0 lead and hope of a comeback. After the break, Leipzig came out determined and almost fashioned an equalizer — Yussuf Poulsen just inches away from converting Timo Werner's right-wing cross. Leipzig went close two more times as they played on the counter-attack, Poulsen again failing to connect in a good position and Werner also failing to connect with a Sabitzer cross. Napoli's control of possession was always going to result in chances, however, and five minutes before regular time Napoli struck. Insigne ghosted in at the back post in front of a static Konrad Laimer to slot home substitute Jose Callejon's cross. But it was too late for the guests, Leipzig shutting up shop to win the tie 3-3 on away goals. It wasn't a vintage performance from the Europa League newcomers, but enough to put them through to the next round. If they are to go all the way in this competition, however, more consistency over two legs will be key.