*****Refresh page for the latest updates***** 04:33 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: We have skiing! Germany's Thomas Dressen, the first racer to take to the hill, is still leading in the downhill portion of the men's combined. Norway's Aksel Lund Vindal is less than a tenth of a second behind Dressen, while Marcel Hirscher, who is a slalom specialist, is currently sat in 10th primed to make a push for gold when the slalom discipline takes centre stage. 64 racers to race. The top 30 move on when the events flips. Meanwhile, American women's racer Lindsey Vonn is having her patience tested! 04:10  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: White returns! Chloe Kim got the ball rolling for halfpipe action with a stunning victory and coming up shortly, the start of qualifying in the Men's event. Kim has ben called the 'Shaun White' of women's snowboarding, but the real Shaun White will be taking to the course in his fourth Olympic Games. 03:50 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: We have skiing! Finally, two days late, we finally get to see an alpine skiing event at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang! The wind is still a factor for the men's combined, which is a combination of the downhill and slalom disciplines. Germany's Thomas Dressen currently leads, while we've see OAR's Pavel Trikhichev and America's Ryan Cochran-Siegle both walk away from high-speed crashes. Austria's Marcel Hirscher is the favorite, but trails Dressen at present. 03:35 Women's Halfpipe: Changing of the guard Kelly Clark carved out the path for the rise of women's halfpipe snowboarding, but Chloe Kim is changing the game. 03:31 Women's Halfpipe: Chloe Kim claims gold! Chloe Kim was the favorite going into the final and it wasn't hard to see why as she takes gold. She is the queen of the halfpipe! Her first run was a cut above the competition on Run 1, but she landed back-to-back 1080s, following in the footsteps of the legendary Shaun White, to get a score of 98.25. WHAT? BACK-TO-BACK 1080s! 98.25! That's insane! No one came close to matching her amplitude and technical ability. What is it with American 17-year-olds and winning gold in snowboarding events? Elsewhere, Arielle Gold threw down a run that saw her pip the veteran Kelly Clark to a bronze medal, while Liu Jiayu, who came so close to landing a 1080 of her own, had to settle for a silver medal after falling on her third run as she sought to improve upon her second run score. 1. Kim (USA) - 98.25 2. Liu (China) - 89.75 3. Gold (USA) - 85.75 4. Clark (USA) - 83.50 Chloe Kim was on fire as she stormed to a gold medal at the Phoenix Snow Park. 03:24 Women's Halfpipe: In the mind of a gold medalist! On course to win gold in her debut Olympics at the age of 17, here's what is currently on the mind of Chloe Kim. I wonder what was on the sandwich. Ham? Cheese? Chorizo? Kimchi? 03:07 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: I think it's happening! I'm starting to believe! There is an Alpine event is on the cards. Wohooo! 02:59 Women's Halfpipe: Kim proves to be human A few more falls litter Run 2 as riders begin to take more risks in a bid to finish on the podium. The bar has well and truly been raised though. Arielle Gold landed her 1080 to complete a run which scores 74.75, but teammate Maddie Mastro couldn't follow suit, underrotating on a 1080 of her own. Kelly Clark and Liu Jiayu both improved upon their first run scores, but neither really posed much threat to Kim, who is closing in on a victory lap despite proving to be human after all, failing to land back-to-back 1080s. We saw here pull it off in the X Games, so don't go anywhere. 1. Kim (USA) - 93.75 2. Liu (China) - 89.75 3. Clark (USA) - 81.75 4. Gold (USA) - 74.75 02:47 Curling Mixed Doubles: OAR claim bronze The first medal of the day goes to OAR courtesy of a 8-4 win over Norway, who tired, but ultimately failed to claw back an early deficit. That's a third medal on the board for OAR now. Aleksandr Krushelnitckii and Anastasia Bryzgalova impressed as OAR took bronze in the Curling Mixed Doubles. 02:27 Women's Halfpipe: Run 1 done and dusted The ability, skill and the tricks of these snowboarders is beyond belief! Three falls, plenty of 900s, 720s and 540s and a smattering of 1080s delighted during Run 1 of the final. Unsurprisingly, 17-year-old Chloe Kim, the youngest person to win three X Games titles, is on course to win gold stomping a ridiculous run which included a frontside 1080, a frontside 900, a McTwist and a huge inverted 720. What a run! We're seeing most of the riders try and use their first run to give themselves something to build on so expect amplitude and technical skill to increase as we go on. 1. Kim (USA) - 93.75 2. Liu (China) - 85.50 3. Clark (USA) - 76.25 02:07 Women's Halfpipe: It's go time! Here's the running order at the Phoenix Park where it's -10°C. Arielle Gold kicked things off, but fell attempting a frontside 1080, but Kelly Clark, the most decorated athlete in the field, has just laid down a stellar run, scoring 76.25. Remember there are three runs each, with the best run counting. 1. Gold (USA) 2. Clark (USA) 3. Thovex (France)  4. Rodriguez (France) 5. Arthur (Australia) 6. Tomita (Japan) 7. Cai (China) 8. Castellet (Spain) 9. Mastro (USA) 10. Matsumoto (Japan) 11. Liu (China) 12. Kim (USA) 02:02 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: Getting hopes up The odds of us seeing the Alpine skiing event of the Games are improving - we will still have to wait until 03:30 CET though! 01:53 Curling Mixed Doubles: Russia ahead at halfway stage At the the end of End 4 - there are eight Ends of six stones each with the final stone being referred to as the 'hammer' - OAR are 5-2 up against Norway. OAR had lost three straight coming into the bronze medal encounter and, while Anastasia Bryzgalova  did fall over one of her own stones, they are in control of the tie. Very promising, but things can change very quickly in Mixed Doubles. 01:40 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: Skiing finally on the cards? High winds robbed us, for the time being at least, of a chance to see the men's downhill and women's giant slalom, but I'm really hoping we finally get to see some skiing later today. Unfortunately, there's no Mexican participation which means we'll have to wait a little while longer to see them bust these bad boys out! 01:30 Women's Halfpipe: Background on Kim On Day 2 of the Winter Olympics 17-year-old Red Gerard stole headlines by taking gold in the men's slopestyle final. Today fellow 17-year-old Chloe Kim is hoping to follow up a dazzling qualifying session with a jaw-dropping performance as she goes for gold. Kim was too young to compete in the Sochi Games four years ago despite scoring well enough to qualify and, talking to the Guardian, the American whizzkid made it clear she didn't begrudge the wait. “I’m actually kind of thankful that I wasn’t able to go, just knowing what I’m going through now, going into my first Olympics” she told the Guardian last month. “It’s pretty hectic, and I don’t know if my 13-year-old self would have been able to handle it.” Kim will run last in the final at the Phoenix Snow Park after qualifying with the highest score, an acceptable 95.50 out of 100!!! 01:10 Curling Mixed Doubles: History being made Canada and Switzerland will duke it out for gold later today, but getting today's action underway, Norway and OAR are competing for bronze. I'll be honest, I'm no curling buff, but watching the Round Robin sessions was incredibly enlightening andI don't think I'm the only fan the mixed doubles discipline has won at the Games. 01:00 So many highlights I'm gearing up for another late night/early morning slog and can't wait for the action to get back underway in Pyeongchang. Looking down the schedule for today, I have to say I'm eagerly anticipating what the women's halfpipe final (02:00 CET) and Chloe Kim in particular have in store for us, while Men's Alpine Combined Slalom (wind permitting at 03:30) will undoubtedly have me on the edge of my seat. A large coffee, a can of Red Bull - sugar free in case you were wondering - a fruit smoothie, cucumber sticks and quesadillas are on the menu for me tonight! So kick back, settle in and let's see what today has in store for us. 00:50 Get your shiver on! There are eight gold medals up for grabs today and, fingers crossed, the weather is expected to be more cooperative, albeit in sub-zero temperatures. 00:45 Rise and shine! Hello again! Just a few hours after the end of an eventful, and windy, day 3, we're back to Pyeongchang for another stint of Winter Olympic action. Plenty in store today, including seven medal events. Day 4 schedule highlights (Times CET): Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. Despite starting third, Laura Dahlmeier, 24, held off competitors in the Women's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint to win her first Olympic gold medal. "I have dreamed of this day for a long time. I still cannot believe it," Dahlmeier said afterwards.