Britain will face "unavoidable" trade barriers if it decides to leave the European Union's customs union, the EU's chief negotiator Michel Barnier said Monday after meeting British Brexit Minister David Davis in London. Barnier's comments come after British Prime Minister Theresa May ruled out Britain's membership of the EU customs union after it leaves the bloc and ahead of the first formal negotiations on a final deal starting Tuesday. Read more: UK's Theresa May eyes post-Brexit trade ties as China's Xi Jinping touts 'Belt and Road' EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April that divided the talks into two phases. The first phase seeks to "settle the disentanglement" of Britain from the EU. Since talks began on July 17, negotiators have focused on three core issues: the "Brexit Bill," citizens' rights, and the Irish border. Brussels says London needs to continue paying into the EU budget after it leaves. The current budget expires in 2022 and EU officials want Britain to cover pensions and spending for EU loans and projects that it had committed to before triggering article 50. London has said it will honor its commitments, and both sides have reportedly agreed on a final bill of around £50 billion (€67 billion). The EU has said its citizens' rights in Britain is the "first priority" in the talks. It has proposed that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their rights after Brexit. But that arrangement would give the EU's highest court, the ECJ, jurisdiction over EU nationals in Britain, an outcome British officials have said they want to avoid. Both sides have expressed their desire to avoid the return of a hard border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. However, Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid that. British and EU officials would need to monitor goods crossing the border to ensure they adhered to each other's separate customs rules. Talks can only proceed to phase two if the EU deems that "sufficient progress" has been made on phase one issues. According to EU guidelines, phase two talks should identify "an overall understanding on the framework for the future relationship" for the period after Britain has left. Major issues in this phase are set to be trade, immigration, and security. Theresa May has said Britain will leave the European single market, the bloc's free trading area, and the EU customs union, which sets a common EU tariff to third-country goods. Britain could then negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration. London also wants a new EU-UK trade deal, but with only 18 months left for talks, there is little time to negotiate one. May has also vowed to control EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that single market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. (Author: Alexander Pearson) Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019, when Brexit talks conclude, and March 2021, when, supposedly, a new UK-EU trade deal comes into effect. How Britain will look during this transition remains unknown, but Brexit hardliners are unlikely to accept the UK remaining bound to the European Court of Justice (pictured) and paying its full share of the EU budget. Author: Alex Pearson Who said what - Barnier said: "Without a customs union ... barriers to trade and goods and services are unavoidable ... Time has come to make a choice." He told British broadcaster Sky News ahead of his arrival in London: "My feeling is that we have not a minute to lose because we want to achieve a deal." - Speaking alongside Barnier, Davis said Britain was clear on what it wanted, including a customs agreement with the EU that would make trade as "frictionless as possible," while allowing Britain to negotiate new trade deals with non-EU countries. - May's spokesman told reporters on Monday: "We will be leaving the EU and the customs union and it is not government policy to be members of 'the' customs union or 'a' customs union." Britain would leave the customs union, he said, to be able to strike trade deals with non-EU countries. - Tom Brake, the opposition Liberal Democrats' Brexit spokesman, said on Twitter that May's announcement "confirms the crazed, extreme Brexiters are now in control of the government." - David Cullinane, Brexit spokesman for Irish Republican party Sinn Fein, said: "There will be a border if the hard Brexiteers get their way and Britain leaves the customs union." Read more: Brexit: EU ministers agree on transition period demands Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2pPxZ Why this matters now: The announcement follows British media reports that ministers in favor of a "softer" Brexit were set to drive for Britain's continued membership of the EU customs union. Brexiteers — more hardline ministers in favor of a harder Brexit — have consistently pushed back against continued membership. What is the EU customs union? It is an arrangement allows goods to travel tariff-free between customs union members, which includes all EU member states plus partial members Turkey, Andorra and San Marino. Goods entering member countries from a non-members must pay a union-wide tariff. Can Britain remain in the EU customs union after Brexit? Barnier has repeatedly said Britain can only remain in the EU customs union if it abides to the bloc's rules, including paying membership fees, accepting no limits on EU migration into Britain, and renouncing any right to negotiate trade deals with non-EU countries. Brexiteers have however rejected those conditions. Read more: Brexit will leave UK worse off in every scenario, leaked report predicts What would leaving the customs union mean for Britain? It would allow Britain to negotiate third-country trade deals, which many pro-Brexit ministers have said they support. But the move could raise tariffs on British-EU trade and force Britain to enact border checks between Northern Ireland, a British territory, and the Republic of Ireland, an EU member state. British politicians in favor of a softer Brexit fear the economic and political disruption that would result and have called for Britain to either remain in the customs union or seek an arrangement that mimics it. Read more: Brexit Diaries 24: An elephant in the room After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. The former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that 'Brexit means Brexit.' May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline splits talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needs to pay into the EU budget after it leaves - the "Brexit Bill," the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could guarantee an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Ahead of the third round at the end of August, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker lashed out at London for publishing multiple "position papers." Some papers were about the future EU-UK trading relationship, which Juncker said could not be discussed before an agreement on the three phase one issues. Round three ended with some progress on citizens' rights, but none on the Brexit Bill. Theresa May had tried to breathe new life into talks ahead of the fourth round with a speech in Florence, Italy in mid-September. She agreed to a transition phase after March 2019 in which Britain would accept EU rules until a final exit. But round four ended without any notable progress and arch-Brexiteer Nigel Farage said May had stuck "two fingers" at leave voters for accepting a transition. Theresa May spoke at her party's annual conference at the beginning of October and reiterated that Britain would be willing to leave the EU with no final deal. But she did not speak about the disagreements that were still plaguing talks in Brussels. Round five ended a week later with no agreement on the Brexit Bill and no sign that the EU was willing to start phase two talks in the coming months. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Ireland has repeatedly said it won't accept any "hard" border with Northern Ireland after Brexit. Britain agreed in early December there would be no hard border, but didn't say how it would avoid that outcome. It didn't matter. That, along with agreements on money and citizens' rights, was good enough for the EU to say it would give the green light for starting phase 2. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2. Talks will now focus on a transition period and the future trading relationship between the two sides. While the Britain's Theresa May expressed her delight, European Council President Donald Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks will be "dramatically difficult." Author: Alexander Pearson What happens next The customs union debate is set to be a key discussion topic when British and EU negotiating teams meet for the first time on Tuesday since the EU gave the go-ahead in December to move talks onto the details of a final deal. amp/rt (AFP, Reuters, dpa, AP) 