The UN High commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, urged Iran on Friday to "abide by international law" and "immediately halt" executing individuals who committed crimes when they were under 18 years of age. "The execution of juvenile offenders is unequivocally prohibited under international law, regardless of the circumstances and nature of the crime committed," Zeid said in a statement. UN Human Rights spokesman Rupert Coleville also presented the statement to the press in Geneva. Iran is a signatory to two international treaties, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, that prohibit capital punishment for offenses committed by minors. Read more: Amnesty International: Fewer executions worldwide, but more death sentences The new year starts with a 'surge' Zeid pointed to a "surge" in the number of executions of juveniles in Iran. In January, three people — one woman and two men — were put to death for crimes they had committed when they were 15 or 16. Mahboubeh Mofidi, 20, was executed for allegedly killing her husband when she was 16, whom she had married at age 13. The two men put to death were 18-year-old Amir Hussein Pourjafar for alleged rape and murder when he was 16, and 22-year-old Ali Kazemi, who allegedly committed murder at age 15. Read more: Child marriage in Iran forces girls into a life of oppression In 2017, a total of five juvenile offenders were executed, the statement noted. Zeid expressed concern for individuals convicted as minors who remain on death row Some 80 individuals are thought to be on death row in Iran for crimes they committed as minors. Zeid expressed particular concern for three pending executions that had been postponed various times, in one case due to a promised payment of "diyah," or blood money, from the convict's family to the family of the alleged victim. The worst in the world Zeid also blasted Iran for its gender discrepancy on the age of criminally responsibility, calling it "wholly unjustifiable on every level." Girls are criminally responsible at age 9 and boy at age 15. However, he immediately reiterated that executing any minor, whether male or female, was "illegal and unacceptable." Iran is the worst international offender when it comes to executing offenders who are minors, Zeid's statement said. "I am sad to say that Iran violates this absolute prohibition under international human rights law far more often than any other State,” the human rights head said. "No other state comes even remotely close to the total number of juveniles who have been executed in Iran over the past couple of decades.” There was no immediate reaction from Iran. The statement pointed to "partial improvements" in other areas of the death penalty, singling out a 2017 bill that commuted death penalty sentences for some drug offenses into prison terms. However, it noted that "the mandatory death sentence is retained for a wide range of drug-related offenses." The UN human rights commission has pushed for Iran to end the use of the death penalty all together. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b1rd Each evening at 1830 UTC DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.