Apple has boasted a 12-percent surge in bottom-line profit for its September-to-December quarter, making it a record-breaking three months for the US tech giant in terms of net income. The company was able to report the positive result despite a drop in iPhone sales of roughly 1 million, year on year. You have already probably guessed how — the only way to do this is to increase the prices of your flagship products, and that is precisely what Apple has done. A year ago, the average price for an iPhone was $695 (€556), but now it's $796, which is quite a hefty jump in the space of a year. It's not the first time a "sell less, make more" approach has worked well for the tech company. Apple has never lost sight of its profit margin. Its new iPhone X is the company's most expensive smartphone to date, starting at $999 in the US, but you can also spend close to $1,500, if you go for the model with the biggest storage capacity. Cost of components Research firm IHS and others have estimated that the iPhone X costs roughly $400 to make. The price includes expenses for the display, a Bionic chipset, NAND memory, a Qualcomm modem and of course the FaceID sensor. The assessment, if true, would mean a profit margin of about 60 percent. To be fair, one must consider wages, marketing and advertising costs on top of all that, but a net margin of 40 percent seems realistic. Through the years, Apple has not lost its seemingly singular ability to make customers pay a premium price for products and yet still retain brand loyalty and affection — you could easily call this the firm's greatest achievement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rzDs Scott Galloway, professor of marketing at the New York University Stern School of Business agrees that Apple has managed "to combine the lowest cost of goods through mass production with the highest profit margins available only to luxury brands." He adds that "this demonstrates the value of finding a way to appeal to irrational urges and instincts, like status and mate-worthiness, in your marketing and product design." Keeping costs down A look at the company's supply chain suggests cost efficiency is high on the agenda for Apple's strategists. Apple has previously come under fire in this area after a report by Amnesty International pointed to child labor in the manufacturing of smartphone batteries. The assembly of iPhones is mainly done in China, with the majority of parts sourced from China and Taiwan. For Apple, these countries have the benefits of lower labor costs and more flexibility in the production process, all adding to the tech giant's ability to maintain huge profit margins in the face of challenges. Moving more of the production cycle to the US — something US President Donald Trump is demanding — would certainly eat into Apple's profits. Having said that, it's fair to emphasize that Apple is also a huge employer in the United States. After all, the design, development, marketing and software coding for Apple's most famous products are all done at home. By today's standards, the original iPhone — presented by Steve Jobs on January 9, 2007 — looks OK, but certainly not like a must-have. From today's perspective, some tech experts have even called it a 'primitive brick.' A grave injustice? The first iPhone ran on a data transmission technology called "Edge," a version of 2G wireless. It was really slow - it would have taken you roughly eight minutes to send a 5MB file - with today's 4G LTE it takes under four seconds. There was no App Store when the iPhone hit markets worldwide. It only opened in 2008 via an update to iTunes after Steve Jobs finally agreed to let customers use the software distribution platform to personalize their smartphones. Back in 2007, iPhones were unable to send a picture together with a plain text message. Apple's modern iMessage service allows users to not only send text, but also photos, videos, contact information and a lot more. First-generation iPhones had relatively weak cameras, "boasting" a mere 2-megapixels. And they couldn't record any videos - imagine that today! Capturing high-resolution pictures and videos is child's play for the iPhone7 pictured above. Needless to say, in 2007 iPhones did not have a notification center. There was no Siri around or any other personal digital assistant. There wasn't even a turn-by-turn directions app - all relatively recent additions to modern iPhones. Modern iPhones brim with features that the developers of the prototype could only dream of. Nevertheless, Apple will need to add even more exciting things to keep sales figures from falling further (sales were down 5.3 percent in Q3/2016 year on year). Author: Hardy Graupner