February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, the Turkey correspondent for the German daily newspaper Die Welt, goes to Istanbul's police headquarters to answer questions from investigators. Like other international journalists, the 43-year-old had reported that the Turkish energy minister's email account had been hacked. On arriving at the police station, Yücel, who has dual German and Turkish citizenship, is taken into custody. At first, the reasons are unclear. February 18: A few days later, German Chancellor Angela Merkel calls on Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim to treat Yücel fairly. February 27: A court issues an arrest warrant for Yücel. He is detained indefinitely, initially at Istanbul's Metris prison. He is accused of sedition and using "terrorist propaganda to incite the population." Articles by Yücel on the Turkish government's conflict with the Kurdish minority, and the failed coup attempt of July 15, 2016, are mentioned by the judge. Preliminary detention in Turkey can last up to five years. Yücel is held at Istanbul's maximum-security Silivri prison and courthouse complex March 1: Yücel is transferred to the Silivri maximum security prison. Shortly afterward, his lawyers lodge an objection against his pretrial detention. March 14: Yücel is put in a 16-square-meter (172-square-foot) cell. He details his experiences to Die Welt through his lawyers. "Solitary confinement is almost like torture," he writes. "I can only see a 6-meter-high (19.6-foot) wall through the window. I can only see the sky through the barbed wire fence." Once a week, he is allowed to receive visitors, but only his closest relatives, for "one hour behind a glass partition," Yücel writes. April 4: Germany gains consular access to Yücel for the first time. In September, however, Turkish authorities forbid Germany's Foreign Ministry from seeing Yücel again. "We do not understand why it cannot be possible for our consul general to visit Mr. Yücel and the other German prisoners in Turkey on a regular basis," Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schäfer says. He adds that Germany might consider legal action. But, he continues, years could pass before a judgment. Merkel met Dilek Mayatürk, Yücel's wife, in the fall to discuss his ongoing incarceration April 12: Yücel marries his girlfriend, the TV producer Dilek Mayatürk, in prison. The marriage gives Mayatürk visitation rights. According to Die Welt, Yücel's lawyer Ferat Cagil and Safak Pavey, a member of parliament for the centrist opposition Republican People's Party, are witnesses. September 10: On Yücel's 44th birthday, a parade of cars and bicycles is held in Berlin. The demonstration calls for the release of journalists imprisoned in Turkey. Supporters took to the streets of Berlin on Yücel's birthday to call for his release December 13: Yücel's solitary confinement ends. He is transferred to a cell with access to the prison yard. Media report that Yücel is imprisoned with another journalist. There is access from their cells to the common courtyard during the day. According to the Sunday edition of Welt, Yücel is allowed to receive a 60-minute visit from close relatives once a week. Otherwise, only his lawyers are permitted to visit him. What he can receive in the post is restricted, and he is not allowed to send any mail himself. January 17, 2018: Yücel refuses to become a pawn for Turkey in Germany's efforts to bargain for his release. "I'm not available for dirty deals," he tells the press agency dpa in an interview transcribed by his lawyers. He does not want his freedom to be "tainted with Rheinmetall's tank deals or the hustle and bustle of any other comrades-in-arms." A few days earlier, Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel had said that, although Turkey is a NATO partner, Germany's government continued to refuse to approve a large number of arms exports. "It will remain so as long as the Yücel case is not resolved," Gabriel said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r3xJ February 1: Germany's government submits its statement on Yücel's case to the European Court of Human Rights, charging that he was arrested on the basis of his news coverage. "Any suppression of objective reporting is incompatible with our understanding of press freedom," Justice Minister Heiko Maas tells Die Welt. "We will leave no stone unturned in our efforts to advocate a process under the rule of law for Deniz Yücel," he adds. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 17, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier