President Rodrigo Duterte is determined to carry out his campaign promise to amend the constitution and turn the Philippines into a federal state. The shift to a federal form of administration would diffuse government powers centralized in the Philippine capital of Manila, giving local governments more autonomy. The nation's legislature has earlier passed a resolution to convene the two chambers into a Constituent Assembly that would lay out the constitutional reform needed to transition to a federal form of government. Proponents of federalism say that the current system of governance concentrates wealth and power in Manila, creating an imbalance that has excluded remote provinces from development and prosperity. "Constitutional reform is very much needed. The existing constitution provides a political system that favors only those in power. That is why you have the same political dynasties, particularly in areas with small constituent sizes and are therefore easy to dominate," Edmund Tayao, political analyst and executive director of the think tank Local Government Development Foundation, told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fBTM Tayao also sees constitutional reform as a way to pass and gain acceptance for the Bangsamoro Basic Law, a peace deal that would grant greater autonomy to the predominantly Muslim provinces in the southern part of the country. Fast track to constitutional reform Under Philippine law, amending the 1987 constitution would require the support of both houses of Congress and the approval of the people through a national plebiscite. But the two houses have so far been unable to agree on the timeline for the referendum. The Senate is eyeing 2019, while the House of Representatives wants voter ratification to take place as early as May this year. Critics say that the rush to change the constitution is a smokescreen meant to consolidate Duterte's power and keep him and his allies in office indefinitely. Tony La Viña, a legal expert and former dean of the Ateneo School of Government, worries more about how the Duterte administration plans to implement a change as drastic as a nationwide overhaul in governance. "There is no clarity on how he is going to carry this out. Regional divisions would work out a lot of problems, it would diffuse powers but there is no vision, no clear legal framework to guide the move to federalism," La Viña told DW. His other concern is the short cuts taken to convene a Constituent Assembly necessary to initiate federalism. "Such a constitutional change should not be rushed. It leaves no room for debate, discussion or consultation. Any constitutional change should not take place before the next scheduled presidential elections in 2022. This would mean ensuring that the current administration does not benefit from any kind of constitutional changes it had initiated," said La Viña. Read more: No drug-related extrajudicial killings in the Philippines? Will Filipinos rise up against President Rodrigo Duterte? Federalism: Good or bad? In a statement released to DW, House Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez responded to critics' claims that the move to federalism is being rushed and is a smokescreen to extend the powers of Duterte's allies. "It would be inaccurate to say that Congress is expediting this matter. Empowerment of the local governments, which is really what a shift to a federal system is all about, has been an issue constantly faced and debated upon by our country," read the statement. What we see right now is just the natural culmination of all those years of debate regarding this issue, Alvarez noted. "The time has come to finally move forward, tip the scale, and further address the structural aspects of the Philippine state that has dragged and hindered the possibility of achieving greater political stability, more economic development, and expanded opportunities and welfare for our people." Furthermore, Alvarez explained that a shift to a parliamentary system is also being considered to create a more efficient legislative branch with better coordination with the executive department. "A shift to a federal government will diffuse power, reduce the structures that sustain warlordism and political dynasties, expand political and economic opportunities for all, and this new environment created by the structural changes will eventually allow the tenets of a healthy democracy," Alvarez concluded in his statement. Duterte also recently sought to dispel speculation that he had ordered his loyalists in Congress to change the constitution in such a way that it would let him stay on in power beyond 2022, when his single term ends. "If I overstay and wanted to become a dictator, shoot me, I am not joking," Duterte told soldiers during an army base visit in January. "It is your job to protect the constitution and to protect the people. Remember, it is your solemn duty," the president said, adding that security forces should not allow anybody to mess with the constitution. Rodrigo Duterte's rise in Philippine politics began in the spring of 2016. He was considered an outsider in the presidential election but he gradually gained popularity due to a radical election campaign that promised to free the Philippines from drugs and corruption. On May 9, 2016, Duterte was elected to the presidency with almost 40 percent of the total votes and a big lead over other candidates. As mayor of Davao, he had transformed the southern city from a mafia-run place into an economically prosperous area. However, human rights activists accuse him of using death squads and brutal force to achieve this goal. Duterte is known for his sort temper. After coming to power, he threatened to break ties with the EU, the US and Australia. He also publicly insulted foreign leaders like Barack Obama because the former US president labeled Duterte's drug war as inhuman. Duterte also announced that his government would scale down dependence on the US and get closer to China and Russia. In July 2016, the Philippines won a lawsuit against China at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague that rejected Beijing's territorial claims on the South China Sea. China refused to accept the court's ruling. Manila nevertheless celebrated it as a victory but remained cautious in its approach toward China due to its economic interests with Beijing. Leila de Lima, a senator and former director of the Philippine Human Rights Commission, has emerged as Duterte's most powerful opponent during his one year in power. She is leading a senate probe into extra-judicial killings in Duterte's war on drugs. One of Duterte's most controversial decisions during his one year in power was to allow the former dictator Ferdinand Marcos' body to be buried in Manila. Marcos had been denied this honor due to massive human rights violations during his reign. Human rights activists and church representatives held demonstrations against Marcos' "hero's burial." In May, militant groups affiliated with the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) group took control of the southern city of Marawi. Duterte declared Martial Law in Mindanao province and his forces have been trying to recapture the city for weeks. More than 200 people have been killed in the fighting and thousands have fled the town. Author: Thomas Latschan (shs) 