North Korean officials canceled a secret meeting with US Vice President Mike Pence during the 2018 Winter Olympics, US officials said on Tuesday. "North Korea dangled a meeting in hopes of the vice president softening his message, which would have ceded the world stage for their propaganda," said Nick Ayers, Pence's chief of staff. Read more: Majority of South Koreans favor North Korea 'friendship' "This administration will stand in the way of Kim's desire to whitewash their murderous regime with nice photo ops at the Olympics. Perhaps that's why they walked away from a meeting or perhaps they were never sincere about sitting down." Pence led the US delegation to the Olympic Games. He traveled with the father of the late Otto Warmbier, who died shortly after being released from North Korean custody in a coma, to "remind the world of the atrocities happening in North Korea." Ayers said Pence also "met with defectors who escaped tyranny" and "pointed out (North Korea's) atrocious record on human rights." Although they say in the same box, Mike Pence (second from bottom right) did not interact with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's sister, Kim Yo Jong (third from top right) Under pressure Despite heightened tensions between Washington and Pyongyang, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's sister Kim Yo Jong and head of state Kim Yong Nam attended the opening ceremony. Via his sister, Kim invited South Korean President Moon Jae-in to officially visit North Korea. However, analysts believe Pyongyang's diplomatic blitz was aimed at shoring up support for easing sanctions against the country. Read more: Why Donald Trump's tweets puzzle North Korea The region has been on high alert since November, when North Korea launched its most advanced ballistic missile allegedly capable of reaching the mainland US. Despite thawing relations on the Korean Peninsula, 20 countries last month agreed to consider new sanctions during a joint US-Canada summit. The summit was a response to the November launch. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. ls/aw (AFP, Reuters) Kim Il Sung, the first and "eternal" president of North Korea, took power in 1948 with the support of the Soviet Union. The official calendar in North Korea begins with his birth year, 1912, designating it "Juche 1" after the state's Juche ideology. He was 41 when, as shown here, he signed the 1953 armistice that effectively ended the Korean War. In the years and decades after the war, Pyongyang's propaganda machine worked hard to weave a mythical narrative around Kim Il Sung. His childhood and the time he spent fighting Japanese troops in the 1930s were embellished to portray him as an unrivaled military and political genius. At the 1980 party congress, Kim announced he would be succeeded by his son, Kim Jong Il. In 1992, Kim Il Sung started writing and publishing his memoirs, entitled "Reminiscences: With the Century." Describing his childhood, the North Korean leader claims that he first joined an anti-Japanese rally at 6 years old and became involved with the independence struggle at 8. The memoirs remained unfinished at Kim Il Sung's death in 1994. After spending years in the top tiers of the regime, Kim Jong Il took power after his father's death. Kim Jong Il's 16-year rule was marked by famine and economic crisis in an already impoverished country. However, the cult of personality surrounding him and his father, Kim Il Sung, grew even stronger. Historians outside North Korea believe Kim Jong Il was born in a military camp in eastern Russia, most likely in 1941. However, the leader's official biography claims it happened on the sacred Korean mountain Paektu, exactly 30 years after his father, on April 15, 1942. A North Korean legend says the birth was blessed by a new star and a double rainbow. Kim Jong Il had three sons and two daughters with three different women. This 1981 photo shows Kim Jong Il sitting besides his son Kim Jong Nam, with his sister-in-law and her two children in the background. Kim Jong Nam was eventually assassinated in 2017. In 2009, Western media reported that Kim Jong Il had picked his youngest son, Kim Jong Un, to take over as the head of the regime. The two appeared together at a military parade on 2010, a year before Kim Jong Il passed away. According to Pyongyang, the death of Kim Jong Il in 2011 was marked by a series of mysterious events. State media reported that ice snapped loudly at a lake on the Paektu mountain during a sudden snowstorm, with a glowing message appearing on the rocks. After Kim Jong Il's death, a 22-meter (72-foot) statue of him was erected next to the one of his father (l.) in Pyongyang. Kim Jong Un mostly stayed out of the spotlight before his ascent to power. His exact age is disputed, but he is believed to have been born between 1982 and 1984. He was reportedly educated in Switzerland. In 2013, he surprised the world by meeting with former NBA star Dennis Rodman in Pyongyang. Like the leaders before him, Kim Jong Un is hallowed by the state's totalitarian regime. In 2015, South Korean media reported about a new teacher's manual in the North that claimed Kim Jong Un could drive at the age of 3. In 2017, state media said that a monument to the young leader would be build on Mount Paektu. Altough Kim took power at a younger age and with less of a public profile than his father and grandfather, he has managed to maintain his grip on power. The assassination of his half-brother Kim Jong Nam in 2017 served to cement his reputation abroad as a merciless dictator. The North Korean leader has also vastly expanded the country's nuclear arsenal. Author: Darko Janjevic