Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. That quote, attributed alternately to the ancient Chinese general Sun Tzu and the Renaissance writer and philosopher Machiavelli, might have been on German Chancellor Angela Merkel's mind on Sunday evening as she announced the six members of her conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU) whom she would like to serve in her next cabinet — if her grand coalition with the Social Democrats (SPD) is approved. Merkel said she had tried to strike a balance between experience and youthful energy in making her picks. "I think we've got an effective team that's equal to the demands of the future," the 63-year-old Merkel said, adding that all of her proposed ministers are far younger than she is. But a youth movement probably wasn't Merkel's main concern in putting together a new team. The nomination of Spahn (top center), a potential rival for Merkel, is viewed as a concession to the party's youth wing Nominating a rival Of the six names on her list, the one that stands out most is Jens Spahn, the chancellor's nominee for health minister. The 37-year-old not only represents a new political generation, but was also heavily critical of Merkel's welcoming policy toward refugees, and is rumored to have even met with leaders of the CDU's allied Bavarian party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the center-right Free Democrats for informal brainstorming sessions about a post-Merkel political order. Read more: Opinion — As CDU spats, Merkel retains her nerves of steel Spahn is something of an oddball in the Merkel-led CDU. He is far more conservative than the chancellor. His nomination drew immediate criticism from the opposition Left party and Greens, who say he's far too close to Germany's mighty pharmaceutical industry. Among conservatives under 40, Spahn is seen as having the best chance to lead the party some day, and his nomination is being viewed as a concession by Merkel to the party's youth wing, the Young Union, which hasn't always been happy with her centrist policies. It is the first time that Spahn has been offered a job at the ministerial level, usually seen as a precondition for higher political functions such as party chair or chancellor candidate. At the same time, the head of the Health Ministry is hardly the most glamorous of posts and, as a member of her cabinet, Spahn won't have many opportunities to criticize the chancellor. Moreover, if a new grand coalition government is formed as expected next month, Spahn could be somewhat isolated as one of its most conservative members. Klöckner and Altmaier reflect Merkel's centrist pragmatism Allies and moderates Merkel may have made a tactical concession by naming Spahn, but she picked allies and politicians who reflect her own moderate, pragmatic style of governing for the other ministries. The most powerful of the CDU's cabinet posts, the head of the Economy Ministry, went to 59-year-old Peter Altmaier (bottom right in photo). The political veteran served as the head of the Chancellery in Merkel's last cabinet and is regarded as one of her closest political friends and supporters. Merkel chose Helge Braun (bottom center in photo) for the new head of the Chancellery, where he currently serves as minister of state. The promotion from within the body would promise continuity. To that end, Merkel tapped Ursula von der Leyen (top left in photo), has been part of all of her governments since 2005, to stay on as Defense Minister. The Agriculture Ministry would go to Julia Klöckner (top right in photo), the head of the CDU in Rhineland-Palatinate and a centrist who is often thought to be on the short list of Merkel's potential successors. Speculation is rife in Berlin that, if she succeeds in forming a new government, Merkel will not see out the entirety of her fourth term in office. Von der Leyen is part of a gender-blanced CDU cabinet team No east Germans Finally, Merkel nominated the relatively unknown 46-year-old Anja Karliczek (bottom left in photo) to head the Education Ministry. Karliczek is known for her activism in trying to help women coordinate family and career, and it is impossible to ignore that Merkel's proposed appointments are split equally between males and females. For a party that is often accused of having problems with women in top positions, this is by no means a given. With Merkel herself included, there would be more female than male CDU cabinet members — a first in conservative German politics. Last week, Anngret Kramp-Karrenbauer, another potential Merkel successor, was also named the CDU's new party general secretary. On the other hand, Merkel herself is the lone conservative member of the proposed new government from the formerly Communist East Germany. That has drawn criticism from some observers who see such an absence as a sign that the established political parties have abandoned the east of the country to the far-right Alternative for Germany party. For the time being, Merkel's cabinet members are only proposals. Before the ministers-designate can take up their posts, the grand coalition agreement must be approved — first by delegates to conferences of the CDU and CSU, and then by a mail ballot of the more than 450,000 members of the SPD. That vote, which is seen as the higher hurdle, will be complete by March 2, after which Germany will know whether it has a new government or not. Reputedly Merkel's choice as her future successor but lesser known across Germany, Kramp-Karrenbauer heads a CDU-SPD coalition as state premier in Saarland. Economic development that "leaves no one behind" is one of Kramp-Karrenbauer's policy planks. She also backed Merkel's tolerance toward asylum-seekers. At 37, the youngest and overtly determined Merkel usurper, Jens Spahn became a federal parliamentarian in 2002 and later the CDU's health spokesman until 2015. "Young, gay and conservative," concluded the magazine Stern. The hobby DJ duped Merkel by leading the passage of a resolution at a CDU conference in 2016 to quash limited-category dual citizenship granted to young foreigners since 2000. Germany's first female defense minister began her career in medicine, studying public health at Stanford University in the United States. Outspoken on family issues, von der Leyen sought gains for soldiers' families and during probes against far-right army suspects her "false esprit de corps" accusation upset some personnel. She also advocates closer EU defense links. Klöckner leads the CDU opposition in Rhineland-Palatinate, once the base of ex-chancellor Helmut Kohl and now led by the Social Democrats. The former "Wine Queen" is in Merkel's federal CDU executive and formerly studied political science and theology. Her stance tends to be conservative: opposing abortion, embryonic stem cell research and proposing an alternative plan to Merkel's refugee policy. The Merkel chancellery chief's espousal of her progressive policy mix grates with arch conservatives, for example, during Germany's 2015 refugee crisis. From Saarland, Altmaier first worked for the EU. The former environment minister, now 59, is renowned for his kitchen diplomacy. "Merkel's bodyguard" is a stickler for policy detail and is not averse to "green" ideas. Bavaria's survivalist state premier, 68, recently foiled a revolt in his CSU as it seeks to lure back jaded voters in a 2018 regional election. His ploy: acting as indispensable negotiator alongside Merkel at Berlin coalition talks. The rest of Germany is unlikely to want him as chancellor but his unrelenting objection to her policies, slated as too liberal, has calmed down conservatives. Hesse's former interior minister, and since 2010 its state premier, has twice "won" Big Brother awards from German data privacy advocates for propagating closer surveillance methods by police. The sports fan, 66, currently heads a CDU-Greens coalition government in Wiesbaden and in Merkel's CDU is one of five deputy chairpersons in her executive. Avowed European, liberal, but branded by his critics as too nice for politics: Laschet last year became CDU state premier of North Rhine-Westphalia. His win marked a major defeat for Social Democrats in Germany's 18 million-strong "coal" state. The Catholic and former journalist, 56, is also one of five deputies in Merkel's CDU executive — like Bouffier, Klöckner and von der Leyen. Author: Ian P. Johnson Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here.