Germany's Social Democrats (SPD), the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), have agreed a coalition deal. But before the coalition can actually get to work, some 460,000 SPD members must first approve the deal. Among them are individuals who do not hold German citizenship, including several refugees. SPD-affiliated sources estimate there are roughly 7,000 non-German party members. One of them is Abdulrahman Abbasi. DW: Mr Abbasi, you do not hold German citizenship but have a say in Germany's political future. How does that make you feel? Abdulrahman Abbasi: It means a lot to me. Even though I don't yet have German citizenship I feel part of this society. I study dentistry in Göttingen and have been living in this country for four years. I enjoy the rights and honor the duties of living in this country and actively participate in its social and political life. Deciding on the next government means a lot to me because it will pass laws that will affect the society in which I live. Read more: New SPD members may play pivotal role in coalition deal's success Is the "right to vote" an indicator of successful integration? Of course. I think refugees should understand Germany's political system and learn more about what goes on to form an opinion on which political camp most appeals to them. But above all they must ask themselves: "Are we part of this society?" And if the answer is "yes," they must vote. Political decisions that are made later on will also impact their lives — for better or worse. For me as a refugee, this kind of political participation marks a big step in the process of integration. What matters to you most in this vote: your own interests, those of German voters, or those of refugees? Refugees are part of German society. I'll base my decision not only on what refugees might want, because the government is supposed to serve everyone in this country, whether they're citizens, foreigners or refugees. I'll base my vote on what the new government plans to do for everyone in this country, not just for refugees. Abbasi is concerned about one Cabinet appointment above all others — Horst Seehofer as interior minister The coalition deal has been done. If you'll allow the question: How are you planning to vote as an SPD member? It's a tricky decision, I'm still undecided. I don't like the fact that the CSU will control the Interior Ministry. I'm not happy that Horst Seehofer will become interior minister. On the other hand, I don't like the prospect of a minority government or fresh elections, either. Even so, I'm currently leaning toward voting "no." Read more: Angela Merkel last East German standing in new Cabinet Regardless what shape the next government will take: Which aspects should it emphasize in its approach to refugees? I'm disappointed with the compromise reached over refugee family reunification, to be honest. If the government caps the number of relatives allowed into the country at 1,000 per month to reunite with individuals granted subsidiary protection, some might wait five years for their relatives to arrive. This system hinders integration because it's well-known that individuals need their families to lead normal lives here. Integration is important. People must be made to feel that they are part of society. And not that they could be deported in one or two years' time. The interview was conducted by Meriem Marghich and Nader Alsarras. There are five "classic ministries" in Germany's government – Finance, Foreign, Interior, Justice and Defense. Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) are ceding direct control of two of them. One, finance, is to change from right to left of the political divide, moving from CDU to Social Democrat (SPD) hands. Other switches are likely in less prominent portfolios. The transfer of the Finance Ministry from CDU hands to the SPD is the biggest surprise of the deal. The minister plays a major role at the European level as evidenced by the CDU’s Wolfgang Schäuble during the eurozone sovereign debt crisis. Hamburg Mayor Olaf Scholz, a centrist within the SPD, will likely get the title of deputy chancellor in addition to finance minister. The Interior Ministry, which deals with law and order within Germany, looks set to stay in the hands of Merkel’s conservatives, but not her own CDU. Touted for the position is the leader of Bavarian sister party the CSU, Horst Seehofer (left). The Bavarian party has taken a tougher line than Merkel on immigration. The conservatives suffered losses to the far-right AfD in September's election. Under the deal, the SPD will keep control of the Foreign Ministry. Since 1966, the ministry has been run by a member of smaller coalition partners. Sigmar Gabriel has been in the role in a caretaker capacity since Frank-Walter Steinmeier was elected president. Martin Schulz (above), a former leader of the European Parliament, was expected to take over but pulled out in a bid to quell party unrest. The CDU’s Ursula von der Leyen, a key ally of Merkel who is thought to have her own ambitions to become chancellor, is likely to remain in her role at the helm of the Defense Ministry. The ministry has had a growing importance in recent decades as Germany became more involved in foreign military operations. In particular, the Bundeswehr maintains a significant deployment of troops in Afghanistan. Typically a portfolio that goes to the junior coalition partner, responsibility for the Justice Ministry may well stay with the current incumbent — the SPD’s Heiko Maas. While individual states in Germany are generally responsible for the administration of justice, the federal ministry is charged with making and changing constitution-related laws. It also analyzes laws made by other ministries. Helping to make up for the CDU losing two major offices, the CDU will get its hands on the Economy Ministry, also responsible for energy policy. Merkel's right hand in the chancellery Peter Altmaier (pictured) — who has also been running the Finance Ministry since the departure of Wolfgang Schäuble — is expected to take over from the SPD's Brigitte Zypries. The favorite to take over at the top of the Ministry of Agriculture is the CDU’s Julia Klöckner, who leads the party in the western state of Rhineland Palatinate. Having twice failed in her bid to become state premier there, She’ll be one of the relatively rare new faces in Berlin. The CSU will also retain the Transport Ministry with CSU Secretary-General Andreas Scheuer, from Lower Bavaria, taking charge. He’d also be responsible for digital infrastructure. The party will hold onto the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, with undersecretary in the Transport Ministry Dorothee Bär set to take the reins from current Development Minister Gerd Müller. The Health Ministry remains a CDU concern, with Annette Widmann-Mauz, an undersecretary in the ministry from Baden Württemberg, expected to take over. She’d replace fellow CDU member Hermann Gröhe, who is touted to head up the Federal Ministry for Education and Research. Author: Richard Connor