+++Refresh page for updates, all times CET+++ Medal Events Day 10 12:11 - The men's 2-man Bobsleigh heats are about to get underway. Meanwhile, there's also women's curling action that we'll be keeping our eyes on so don't go anywhere. 11:55 - Here's more on the banned substance linked with allegations which have rocked the Winter Olympics. 11:38 - We brought you news of an anti-doping case being opened against Russian curler and bronze-medalist Alexander Krushelnitsky. Here's more.... Read more: Anti-doping case opened against Russian curler 10:59 - Ole Einar Bjørndalen, a name etched in the Winter Olympics' history books. 10:11 - The Men's 2-man Bobsleigh event will be one of the highlights this afternoon. Would you fancy hurling down an ice track at those speeds? 09:34 - Canada's Cassie Sharpe stole all the headlines during Monday's women's ski halfpipe qualifiers. She was head and shoulders above the competition courtesy of greater technical difficulty on her flowing ride down the halfpipe. Exciting stuff ahead of tomorrow's final. Sabrina Cakmakli finished seventh in qualifying to reach the women's ski halfpipe final. 09:11 - The USA retake the lead in the 11th end to snatch a 9-7 victory. That's Canada's third straight loss in Pyeongchang and a vital win for the USA, whose final four hopes are still alive. Elsewhere, South Korea beat Italy 8-6 to pick up only their second win from seven meaning they still sit in last place. 08:49 - In the curling, Great Britain has picked up a big win in Round Robin Session 9, leaving it late to complete their comeback against Denmark. Team GB currently sit in fourth in the standings and are poised to progress to the semi-finals. The USA and Canada are tied at 7-7, meaning they've gone to an 11th end to decide their tie.  08:24 - In case you're just joining us, we had a Winter Olympics' first earlier this morning as the Big Air qualifiers took place. If you haven't seen Anna Gasser land the cab double cork 1080 then find the broadcaster of your choice to have a look see. It's well worth it! 07:56 - A quick update on that unfortunate wardrobe malfunction during the ice dance, suffered by French skater Gabriella Papadakis, who had this to say about the incident, "It was pretty distracting, my worst nightmare at the Olympics," the 22-year-old Papadakis said. "I felt it right away and I prayed. I told myself 'you have to keep going' and that's what we did, and we have to be proud of ourselves, delivering a great performance with that happening." 07:20 - It's all over in the ice hockey as the USA clinch a 5-0 victory with another goal in the third period. It is the third successive final at the Games for the US, who lost the past two to Canada, their possible opponents again on Thursday. The Canadians take on Olympic Athletes from Russia in the second semi-final later today. 06:37 - Back to the ice hockey, where the USA have, to all intents and purposes wrapped things up as the players depart at the end of the second period. 06:33 - Things are fairly slow at the minute in Pyeongchang, so just time to keep you updated on the latest doping case to emerge from the Winter Olympics. Alexander Krushelnitsky, who won bronze with his wife in mixed doubles curling, has now been named as the athlete suspected of testing positive for meldonium. A spokesman for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said it would be "extremely disappointing for us if a case is proven".  Krushelnitsky has reportedly left Pyeongchang. 06:04 - We're about to see men's curling for the first time today. It's Italy vs. South Korea, Sweden vs. Switzerland, USA vs. Canada and Great Britain vs. Denmark. This is round 7 of 10. Sweden have a perfect record so far and the hosts look almost out of contention for the four qualifying berths, but otherwise it's up for grabs. 05:48 - The ice dance has just wrapped up for the day, with the 20 qualifying pairs set to return for the Free Dance section that defines the medals on Tuesday. Canadian duo Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir broke their own World Record to be the pick of the bunch, recording a score of 83.67. 05:44 - USA beat Finland 3-1 in the group stages and they're threatening an even bigger win here. Dani Cameranesi has just fired home to put them 2-0 up at the end of the first period. 05:30 - We have a wardrobe malfunction in the ice dancing. Gabriella Papdakis' dress came loose at the top at the start of her routine with Guillame Cizeron but she managed to keep her cool, keep it (just about) together and register a score that puts them in second. Now that's professionalism from the Frenchwoman. 05:20 - The US storm to an early lead over Finland in the ice hockeyy while in the ice dance, Canadaians Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir knock the Shibutanis off top spot, with a score of 83.67. That's a new world record, breaking a mark they set themselves last year. 05:10 - The lull is over, the US and Finland are doing battle on the ice hockey rink and there's movement in the Ice Dance arena too, with the last five couples gliding around in preparation. 05:00 - They're cleaning the ice dance rink ready for the final group and we've still got 10 minutes until the Women's Ice Hockey starts. So, nothing to see here.... 04:40 - Well, the Shibutanis have just shaken up the ice dance, with a score of 77.73 from a well-executed routine. After the scores are announced they take it in turns to have a sentence to the watching camera, including some thanks for 'mom and dad'. Even their utterances appear to be choreographed... 04:31 - In just over half an hour, we'll have the first of the women's ice hockey semifinals, with the USA taking on Finland. The winners of that clash will play either Canada or the catchily-named Olympic Athletes from Russia. 04:10 - It's just the ice dance on at the minute, with the British pair still leading. Most of the big hitters are still to come though, with American brother and sister duo Maia and Alex Shibutani, Canadian favorites Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir and well-regarded French pairing Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron the 18th, 20th and 21st to go. We're currently on pair 15. 03:55 - A quick update on those two late-finishing curling matches in the women's draw. USA eventually edged out Denmark 7-6, while hosts South Korea beat Sweden by the same scoreline. Those last two teams top the round robin group. 03:50 - And that's it for Women's Halfpipe qualification too. Cassie Sharpe the best performer there, the Canadian scoring 93.40. Germany's Sabrina Cakmakli's first run of 81.80 was enough to book her passage to tomorrow's final too. 03:42 - That monster run from Gasser was enough to see her finish at the top of the 12 qualifiers, just ahead of Yuka Fujimori and Reira Iwabuchi of Japan. The final, which consists of three runs, will take place in a little less than 24 hours' time. 03:22 - Anna Gasser has just laid down a real marker for the rest of the Big Air competition. The Austrian was in a strong position after run 1 but has just stepped it up a gear with a sensational 98 in run 2. 03:15 - We have a new leader in the Ice Dance. Great Britain's Penny Coombes and Nicholas Buckland's score of 68.36 puts them out in front. But before the Brits among us start thinking of Torville and Dean, there are still 14 competitors (and another day of competition) to go. Still, a lead's a lead. 03:05 - A couple of the Women's Curling Round robin matches are done and both ended in hammerings. Switzerland beat Russia.... erm... the Olympic Athletes from Russia 11-2 and Canada dished out an 8-3 mauling to Japan. 03:00 - Run 1 of the Halfpipe is also completed. There it's another Canadian, Cassie Sharpe who leads, followed by Marie Martinod of France and Brita Sigourney of the USA. The cutoff mark there is 71-60. We'll know the 12 women who make it through to the finals of the two events in about an hour. 02:51 - The first run of the Big Air snowboarding is done, with Laurie Blouin (Canada), Anna Gasser (Austria) and Julia Marino (USA) leading the way. The cut off mark stands at 70.75 with the second run to follow very shortly. 02:37 - Another German in action, this time in the Halfpipe. Sabrina Cakmakli catches the eye with the brightest of pink jackets and spins, twists and turns her way to 6th place and a decent shot at making tomorrow's final. 02:28 - German pair Kavita Lorenz and Joti Polizoakis have just finished their routine in the Ice Dancing. The pair opted for a distinctly un-German Salsa, Rhumba, Samba musical combo and looked in control without offering anything particularly outrageous. They look relatively satisfied with their score of 59.99, which is enough to lead at this early stage. Lorenz blows a few kisses to the camera and we move on to the Israeli pair. 02:22: - We're about halfway through the first qualifying run in both the Big Air and the Halfpipe. Julia Marino of the USA is leading the former, Canada's Cassie Sharpe in front in the latter. 02:04 - That is some ramp to start off from in the Big Air. 49 meters apparently. Terrifying. Great Briatin's Aimee Fuller heads down it but lands badly. She tells the camera that she'll get it next time before giving her mum a quick shout out. Nice. 02:00 - Other than a few round robin curling matches, which we'll check in on soon, the day's first events are qualifying for the Women's Ski Halfpipe and the Women's Big Air snowboarding and the Short Dance stage of the Ice Dance competition. For the uninitiatied, the first will comprise two runs to whittle the numbers down and the Ice Dance will see all 24 pairs perform one routine. No medals will be handed out but we'll surely get some interesting costume and music choices in the ice dance and it's the first time that the Big Air competition has made it in to the Olympics. 01:45 -  Hello! And welcome back to our live coverage of Pyeongchang 2018. After day 9 featured photo finishes and German bobsleigh drama, we're expecting similar scenes today. Among the events to watch out for are the Men's 2-man Bobsleigh, where Germany are favorites to make it four golds in a row, and the Short Dance section of the Ice Dance competition, which has plenty of American contenders. Here's how the medal table looks ahead of day 10.