The Executive Committee of the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) has ordered the Palestinian government to begin drawing up plans to disengage with Israel, the committee announced on Saturday. Read more: PLO recognition threat on Israel — Posturing or hard-line diplomacy? In a statement, the PLO urged Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas "to begin devising plans to disengage from the Israeli occupation authorities at the political, security, economic and administrative levels," the official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported. The PLO's top leaders announced they would set up a committee to study a measure approved by the PLO's Central Council last month that called for Israel's recognition to be suspended until it recognizes a Palestinian state. The Executive Committee did not go so far as to immediately implement the measure. Should it be fully enacted, the move would threaten decades of formal relations between Israel and the PLO, as well as raise concerns about security coordination between the two governments. Read more: European Union short on influence in Middle East diplomacy According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, conquered Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. Since the year 63 CE, Jerusalem was under Roman rule. Resistance movements rapidly formed amongst the population, so that in 66 CE, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and a renewed destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately six hundred years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 CE. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 CE onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II finally called for the crusade. A total of five Crusades set out to conquer Jerusalem within 200 years. In 1244, however, the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again fell under Muslim rule. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the administrative seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele Tensions with US over Jerusalem Revoking the PLO's recognition of Israel could also mean an end to a two-state solution for the region. Hope for a peace deal involving two states has been dwindling following US President Donald Trump's decision in December to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Read more: Israel risks 'perpetual occupation and conflict': German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel Trump's decision to move the US embassy to the divided city has upended decades of US policy and prompted Abbas to reject any US-led peace efforts. Washington has also withheld millions in aid for Palestinian refugees, with Trump saying the PLO needs to return to the negotiating table. Several Western countries have been urging Palestinian officials against suspending recognition of Israel, according to several diplomats. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rKrU rs/cmk (AFP, dpa)