DW: In 2016, the Philippines launched the world's first public dengue vaccine program with the dengue vaccine Dengvaxia from Sanofi Pasteur. Over 800,000 children have already been vaccinated. In December last year, the French pharmaceutical company itself warned that vaccination in children who had not previously been infected by the dengue virus, can lead to serious health risks. As a result, the Philippine Ministry of Health stopped the mass vaccination program. Now, three out of a total of 14 examined deaths have been linked to the controversial vaccine. Mr. Schmidt-Chanasit, what's the danger of the vaccine? Schmidt-Chanasit: The vaccine itself has no side effects. That means after the injection, nothing bad happens. However, if you vaccinate children who have not previously had dengue fever infections, severe hemorrhagic dengue fever can occur. Jonas Schmidt-Chanasit from the Bernhard-Nocht-Institut for tropical deseases The phenomenon behind it is called Antibody-dependent enhancement. After vaccination, the immune system develops antibodies. An infection with the dengue virus results in the binding of the previously formed antibodies to the virus, which prevents the immune system from blocking it. The virus can now easily multiply and trigger hemorrhagic dengue fever. This mechanism of antibody-dependent enhancement occurs not only after vaccination, but also in natural infections with a new type of virus. In the end, this means that the vaccine provokes severe health risks without directly causing them. Read more: Philippines: Dengue vaccine may be linked to 3 deaths The deadly bite of mosquitoes So not every dengue virus is the same? There are four different serotypes of the dengue virus, which means that you can get infected with dengue four times. After the first infection with a dengue virus, the immune system reacts normally by creating antibodies, and usually symptoms can be treated quite well. But these antibodies can become confused if confronted with another type of the virus later, which leads to hemorrhagic fever. This creates a vaccine gap. Furthermore, the vaccine does not protect equally well against all four virus types. The protection against re-infection by Dengvaxia is 60 percent. For the types 2 and 3, the vaccine is worse, sometimes only 30 percent. All four virus types occur worldwide, also in the Philippines. But their frequency varies from year to year, from month to month. This is a very complex network. Of course, humans develop immunity to the currently circulating virus type, resulting in a gap for another type. The anti-dengue vaccine Dengvaxia has hit the market in 2015 More than 800,000 children have been vaccinated with Sanofi's Dengvaxia. Why have doctors not previously checked if they've already had a viral infection? That would be very time-consuming with such a comprehensive vaccination program. A specific diagnosis of dengue infections is not that easy. The WHO also made clear that the vaccine should only be used in areas where at least 70 percent of people have already experienced a dengue virus infection. If this isn't closely regulated and even children, who have not previously been infected by dengue, receive the vaccination, serious health problems can arise. In addition, Dengvaxia must be given three times, to guarantee a real protection. Of course, it would be much easier and cheaper to prescribe a vaccine only once. Are there any ways to handle these vaccine gaps that occur with Dengvaxia? Not much can be done about this vaccine now. The existence of gaps in certain serotypes and the antibody-dependent-enhancement phenomenon were already known from Phase III studies. However, these studies were conducted for a very limited period of time and even in countries where not all virus types circulated simultaneously. Here, we have to wait for long-term results. Takeda Pharmaceuticals or the Butantan Institute in Brazil are developing additional vaccine candidates that are being tested in phase III trials now. It is still unclear whether they will provide sufficient protection even for children previously infected with dengue virus. The results are still pending. Dengue is a vector transmitted disease The vaccine program in the Philippines was the first large-scale Dengvaxia vaccine program worldwide. Do you think that other countries like Brazil could also stop vaccination programs? The vaccine program in the Philippines was also done to study the long-term effects of the vaccine. You can only see certain effects if you vaccinate widely and many people. Then each country has to decide on the limits for itself - whether the vaccine is clearly related to three deaths, or fourteen or twenty. Each country determines individually how to deal with such vaccination programs. So far, no similar cases are known in Brazil or other countries? Not to that extent. But we also have to be careful, because structures and health reporting systems in other countries are very different and not comparable with the German system. Certain cases can be overseen, that's what we observed with Zika. And the reporting systems in Brazil are not as good as ours. The investigation into vaccine-related deaths also takes some time in itself. So far, I have not heard anything about Brazil. Dr. Jonas Schmidt-Chanasit is a professor of virology at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg. He works with the World Health Organization to fight vector transmitted hemorrhagic fevers. People killed each year: around ten. Sharks and wolves scare many people. And there is no doubt that wolves and some shark species can kill you. But very few of them actually do. Each year there are only around ten deaths caused by either species throughout the world. You have a bigger chance of being killed by your toaster. People killed each year: around 100. That you could be killed by a lion doesn't seem far-fetched and it does happen. Perhaps more surprising is that your chances of falling victim to an elephant are just as high. The world's largest land animal can be quite aggressive and once it becomes enraged, it certainly has the mass and strength to be dangerous. People killed each year: around 500. There are countless children's toys in the shape of hippos and why wouldn't there be? They look cute with their puffy snouts and stocky builds. And they are herbivores. But don't let that fool you. They are territorial and quite aggressive and don't need provocation to come after you, so steer clear if you can. People killed each year: around 1,000. Many people are probably just as scared of crocodiles as they are of sharks or lions and rightfully so. Crocodiles are carnivores and kill prey sometimes much larger than themselves including small hippos, water buffalo and, in the case of saltwater crocodiles, even sharks. People killed each year: around 2000. Tapeworms are parasitic flatworms that live in the digestive tracts of all sorts of vertebrates ranging from whales to mice, and humans as well. They usually find their way into our bodies as eggs or larvae via contaminated food. The infection can be treated with medication but the parasites still kill 200 times as many people as sharks do. People killed each year: around 2,500. Ascaris worms are another parasite contracted in a way similar to tapeworms. But they don't stay in the intestinal tract. Once the eggs hatch, they burrow through the gut wall, travel to the lungs, up the windpipe, are coughed up and swallowed again to return to the intestine where they grow into adults. Ascariasis affects around 1 billion people worldwide. People killed each year: around 10,000. Tied in fifth place are three killers with a death toll of 10,000 each. Although to be fair, it's not the animals that are the killers here, but the parasites they carry. Schistosomiasis can be contracted from contaminated water, Chagas disease and sleeping sickness through insect bites. So make sure to bring bug repellant when you visit affected areas. People killed each year: around 25,000. Rabies is a viral infection that can be contracted from many different animals but in countries where rabies is common among dogs, humans get it from them in 99 percent of cases. And rabies is sneaky. It can take months for symptoms to show and when they do, the disease is almost always fatal. The good news is that both dogs and humans can be vaccinated. People killed each year: around 50,000. Yes: In case of doubt, steer clear of snakes. Many species aren't deadly, some aren't venomous at all but there are enough deadly snakes to make these reptiles the world's third biggest killer. People killed each year: around 475,000. Yes, we made the list, too. After all, we are incredibly creative when it comes to finding ways to kill each other. This earns us the sad honor of second place amongst the killers of man. People killed each year: around 725,000. In places like Germany, they are just a nuisance, elsewhere they can be harbingers of death. And again it is the diseases they carry, not the animals themselves that kill. Malaria alone kills about 600,000 people a year. Dengue fever, yellow fever and encephalitis are transmitted by mosquitoes too, making the tiny insects the world's biggest killers. 