+++ Refresh page for updates, all times CET +++ Remaining Gold Medal Events Day 8: 09:21 - Swiss slopestyle gold medallist Sarah Hoefflin has dashed any hopes Great Britain may have had of adding to their first ever medal on skis. Isabel Atkin had scooped bronze for Team GB behind Hoefflin, who grew up in Great Britain. But when asked if she would switch citizenship, Hoefflin was pretty blunt: "No, I'm not British, I'm staying Swiss." 09:02 - Norovirus latest! The two Swiss skiers that went down with the highly contagious — and if we're honest, very unpleasant — vomiting virus on Friday have been given the all clear to return to training. Fabian Boesch and Elias Ambuehl were the first athletes to catch the bug that has been doing the rounds in South Korea, but appear to be over the worst of it. 08:45 - The curling quarter-finals are now complete. Switzerland held on to secure a 7-5 win over Norway and Japan edged it in the end, beating Italy 6-5. 08:32 - The home fans are in raptures as South Korea inflict an 11-5 defeat on fancied Great Britain in the men's curling quarter-finals. Elsewhere, Sweden saw off Canada 5-2 but it is going down to the wire between Japan and Italy (5-5 at the moment) and Switzerland have their noses slightly in front of Norway, leading 6-5. 08:00 - Plenty of consternation on the curling ice as the quarters enter the decisive phase. But we're still catching our breath after an astonishing day so far. In case you missed it, where on earth were you? First, snowboarder Ester Ledecka produced one of the greatest Olympic shocks of all-time, winning the super-G skiing by 0.01 seconds. Then Japanese figure skater Yuzuru Hanyu defended his Olympic title despite only returning from a five-month layoff the day before. 07:00 - There's a slight lull in proceedings now, after that flurry of events. But never fear, the curlers are back on the ice. The second set of matches of the day sees hosts South Korea take on Great Britain, Switzerland play Norway, Canada take on Sweden and Japan vs. Italy 06:53 - Canada's last penalty-shot clips the post and the Czech Republic take the win in the men's ice hockey. They won the shootout 3-2 after the match finished 2-2. It was Canada's first defeat at the Olympics since 2010. Both teams should still qualify for the quarterfinals though.  06:40 - Over to ice hockey and away from medals now. Canada and Czech Republic are in a penalty shootout in Group A of the men's draw. Earlier in the women's tournament, the Olympic Athletes of Russia (OAR) hammered Switzerland 6-2 to book a semifinal clash with Canada. 06:31: Well, you wait all day for gold medals and then three come along at once. Just to re-cap; Ester Ledecka started it off, snatching an unlikely gold in the Super-G by one hundreth of a second. Then Yuszuru Hanyu led a Japanese 1-2 in figure skating, retaining his title despite having been injured for the last five months. Finally, there was another 1-2 in the Women's Ski Slopestyle, led by Sarah Hoefflin. And breathe... 06:27: GOLD FOR SWITZERLAND! Sarah Hoefflin's incredible final run score of 91.20 edges her ahead of compatriot Mathilde Gremaud, who registered an 88.00 on run 1 and British skier Isabel Atkin's third run 84.60 to win the Ski Slopestyle. It's 27-year-old Hoefflin's first Olympic medal. Atkin wins Britain's second bronze of Pyeongchang and their first ever medal on skis. 06:22: - Norwegians Johanne Killi and Tiril Sjaastad Christiansen have their crack at glory but don't trouble the leaders. Sweden's Emma Dahlstrom will be the last to hit the snow. 06:20: Great Britain's Isabel Atkin does enough to put herself in bronze medal position, three skiers to come. 06:15 - No time to dwell on that, it's straight to the Women's Slopestyle final. Sarah Hoefflin leads a Swiss 1-2 with Mathilde Gremaud right now but there's a couple of athletes left. 06:09 - GOLD for JAPAN! It is Yuszuru Hanyu, who defends the title he won in Sochi four years ago. His first skate after five months out injured came just yesterday and now he's the Olympic champion. And, despite that fall, Shoma Uno makes it a 1-2 for Japan. Javier Fernandez, of Spain, wins bronze. 06:06 - Uno, who performed to the ever-dramatic strains of Nessun Dorma, is done but fell to the ice at one point. It looks like it's Hamyu's gold again. We'll find out very soon. 06:00 - Hanyu holds on to the lead in the Figure Skating after Javier Fernandez' display is only good enough for second. Just Hamyu's compatriot Shoma Uno to go now... 05:58 - The third and final run of the Women's Ski Slopestyle will be with us very soon. Mathilde Gremaud of Switzerland is the current leader. 05:49 - Yep, here come the toy bears. Hanyu drops to his knees to touch the ice after an exceptional, almost faultless, performance and volunteers clear up the toys thrown by a vociferous crowd. That routine saw him awarded 206,17, good enough for second in the Free Skating and the overall lead! Two more athletes to come. 05:44 - Yuszuru Hanyu is on the ice. He's a hugely popular figure in Japan, as we saw on Friday when the rink was covered in toy Winnie the Poohs (apaprently one of his favorite characters) following his performance. That was also his return from a serious injury. 05:39 - And, just like that, we have a new leader... 05:30 - And after waiting more than six hours for the first gold medal of the day, we're now not far away from a second. The Men's Figure Skating is currently led by two Americans - Nathan Chen and Vincent Zhou - but with five competitors still to perform, it's unlikely to stay like that. 05:17 - GOLD FOR CZECH REPUBLIC! It's now officially confirmed, Ester Ledecka is the Super-G Olympic champion. She's just done a quick interview with Eurosport: "I was always trying to win but for sure I did't expect that," said the 22-year-old, who also competes in snowboard events. Austrian Anna Veith takes silver, Tina Weirather (Liechenstein) bronze.  05:09 - With things looking good for the multi-talented Ledecka in the Super-G, it's worth noting that the first of the three runs that make up the Women's Ski Slopestyle final are beginning. The final run will start in just under an hour. 05:00 - This is unbelievable. Veith must have thought she'd won,as did the rest of the world, but Ester Ledecka has just completed a superb run to pip her by a hundreth of a second. The Czech skiier, who is also in the snowboard parallel slalom, leads and looks thoroughly shocked by that turn of events. She's not the only one. 04:25 - We have a new Super-G leader, Austria's Anna Veith who is currently set to retain the title she won in Sochi four years ago. 04:32 - Viktoria Regensburg got the Germany team thinking they might extend their medal table lead for a second there with a brilliant start. She was ahead of the game coming in to the final checkpoint but eventually slumped to sixth. 04:30 - Weirather still leads at the Super-G. If she holds on, it'll be Liechtenstein's third Winter Olympics gold. The first two were won by her mother Hanni Wenzel at Lake Placid in 1980. 04:15 - Wow. Liechtenstein's Tina Weirather takes the lead by one hundreth of a second and knocks Vonn off the podium. Elsewhere, there were wins in the curling for Sweden, USA, China and Great Britain. There'll be more of that this afternoon. 04:10: - Vonn's error already looks costly. After five runs, shes's already down in third. Johanna Schnarf, of Italy, has gone ahead of hera nd Switzerland's Laura Gut is the current leader. 04:01 - Vonn flies hugely wide on a bend and therefore sets a pretty poor mark of 1:21:49, which seems very likely to be be surpassed by at least three athletes. 03:57 - We're almost set for the first medal of the day, the Women's Super-G. Lindsey Vonn will go out first in a race missing Mikaela Shiffrin, who pulled out after illness. For some reason the best skiiers race first in this one followed by a a lot of athletes who have no hope of victory, so we'll have a winner very soon. 03:41 - Things are heating up in the men's figure skating. Fortunately, not literally as competition might prove tricky were that to be the case. America's Nathan Chen just delivered an historic display, landing six quads (four spin jumps). His free skate score is a whopping 215.08. If only he hadn't finished 17th in the short program... Nevertheless, a remarkable display from the 18-year-old. 03:25 - Over in the Ski Freestyle, Germany's Kea Kühnel's hopes look slim after a shocking performance in her first qualifying run followed by a fairly unspectuacular one in her second. 03:05 - A quick update on those curling matches: Sweden lead Switzerland 6-4, USA are 5-4 up over OAR, Great Britain lead Denmark by the same score and Japan lead China 5-3. The matches are in end 8 of 10. 02:45 - Two more have been and gone at the Figure Skating. Chinese athlete Han Yan was definitively - but unfortunately - not the man before Japan's Keiji Tanaka added a touch of class, gliding around in a mock dinner jacket and pocket square to some piano numbers. Unfortunately he also fell over twice. 02:30: - Well. Fentz makes an interesting sartorial choice with some mock-armor that has more than a touch of the school play about it. He accompanies that with a version of the Game of Thrones theme and a performance marked with a couple of stumbles and some more elegant moments. Not great but he acknowledges the crowd like  Daenerys Targaryen after a victory in battle. So, there's that. 02:20 - We've seen our first two figure skaters and already two falls and a Beatles medley including Come Together, Let it Be and Help . Fair to say Denniss Vasiljevs (Latvia) and Matteo Rizzo (Italy) won't be featuring on the podium but they look happy enough. Paul Fentz, Germany's sole entrant, is up next. 02:00: The Men's Singles Figure Skating, the first medal event of the day is about to start. The 24 competitors will perform their free skating routine in reverse order, according to their short program from Friday. Japan's Shoma Uno registered the best score and will be last on the ice while his popular compatriot Yuzuru Hanyu (see 01:30) will be third-from-last. 01:45 - As it was yesterday, it's curling that starts the day. Switzerland are playing Sweden, USA are taking on OAR (Olympic Athletes from Russia), Japan play China and it's Great Britain vs. Denmark. Some tasty matchups in the roundrobin stage there. Four of the ten teams in the league will qualify. 01:35 - A spot of housekeeping first, and the Women's Super-G event has been delayed by an hour due to high winds. Lindsey Vonn among the favorites there. 01:30 - Hello again and welcome to Day 8 of the Pyeongchang Games! We're expecting another dramatic one, just like day 7, and there's a huge variety of events, with nine medals to be won. The first of those is in men's figure skating where Japan's Yuzuru Hanyu will be hoping to match his stellar display yesterday, complete with Winnie the Pooh souvenirs. Stay tuned throughout the day for updates. Germany still lead the medal table, despite a disappointing day yesterday, while Mikaela Shiffrin will miss the Women's Super G after falling ill. 