On February 2, the Japan Tourism Agency launched the "Enjoy My Japan" global tourism campaign with a series of videos showcasing some of the nation's top tourist attractions in a variety of languages. Much of the effort is concentrated on bringing in more European visitors. The videos ranged from traditional temples and unique cuisine to diving in Okinawa, art installations in Kagawa Prefecture, "onsen" hot springs and performances of "noh" theater. Read more: Japan: the land of a thousand conveniences According to the Japan National Tourism Organization, there were 28.7 million foreign visitors to Japan in 2017, a remarkable 500 percent increase on the 4.76 million arrivals as recently as the year 2000. Of that total, however, 85 percent are from other parts of Asia - primarily China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan – and are visitors who only stay a short time, typically four or five days. While arrivals in Japan were up more than 40 percent from South Korea and more than 21 percent from Hong Kong in 2017, visitors from Germany were up a mere 6.7 percent and 6.2 percent from the UK. Yamanouchi, a town in the Nagano prefecture, is well-known for its hot baths, or onsen. It is also the home of the Jigokundani Snow Monkey Park. If it weren't for the monkeys, Yamanouchi would be just another bath house town within a day's drive from Tokyo. There would still be visitors, but not in the same way. Brochures and signs throughout Tokyo show the snow monkeys, not the baths. The park is home to an interesting little creature that people from all over the world come to see: the Japanese macaque, or the snow monkey. The monkeys can be seen in the park at every time of year. It is a 1.6-kilometer (1 mile) walk in the forest from the Kanbayashi Onsen to the monkey park. The park was established in 1964 after the Korakukan Ryokan (a Japanese-style hotel) in the Jogkudani Valley (Hell Valley) noticed the red-faced monkeys in the private bath. After paying the 800 yen ($7.24, €5.90) entrance fee, visitors get to make the picturesque walk. The monkeys love to take a bath in the hot springs in the park. Snow monkeys can be seen in the warmer months as well, but they will not be hanging out in the hot bath as much as they would in the winter. The monkeys also tend to spread out more during the warmer, sunnier months, instead of huddling together to preserve warmth. The monkeys' fur keeps them warm throughout the winter, even when away from the hot spring. Snow monkeys have multiple partners throughout the mating season, so it is not certain who the father is. It is very common to see monkeys hanging on branches, eating and simply strolling along the paths around the park. Park staff do feed the monkeys barley during the day, so it does make a popular spot for the monkeys around feeding time. The snow monkey park is a major hit for tourists, who can get close to the monkeys and take photos of and with them. The park has strict guidelines to keep humans and monkeys on good terms. Visitors are not allowed to feed the monkeys or have plastic bags out in the open. Monkeys could confuse the bags, which are not digestible in a monkey's stomach, for food, and snatch it from them. Author: Kai Dambach What do Europeans want? The Japanese government has set a target for a total of 40 million visitors in 2020, when Tokyo will host the Summer Olympic Games. Tourism authorities have been tasked with reaching out to travelers from further abroad with the message that Japan has something for every tourist's taste. "European travelers love nature and enjoy outdoor activities in their own countries, but most of them are still not aware that Japan also has opportunities to explore the great wide open," Ryoji Aso, deputy manager of the JNTO's Inbound Promotion Department, told DW. Read more: Japan's love affair with vending machines "We are strongly promoting local sights that are off the 'Golden Route' - the traditional path that visitors take linking Tokyo with Kyoto and Osaka - and through our web site dedicated to the European market, we are suggesting a selection of just some of the outdoor activities that are available, as well as culture experiences such as 'onsen' and regional cuisine," he said. "We want to let people across Europe know about the outlying regions and give them good reasons to visit," Aso said. The JNTO is focusing its efforts this year on Germany, the UK, France, Italy, Spain and Russia. Russia alone has seen a surge of nearly 42 percent in arrivals in Japan during 2017, although primarily from Far East cities such as Vladivostock. "We are especially targeting European travelers between the ages of 20 and 40, who account for the biggest volume of tourists from Europe," Aso said. The cherry blossom festival every spring is a major tourist draw in Japan Building boom The new campaign will traverse a wide selection of media and include television spots, social media and an online campaign in conjunction with airlines and online travel agents. This comes shortly after the JNTO opened six new overseas offices, including in Madrid, Rome and Moscow. Another key message that the industry is hoping to communicate to potential travelers is that Japan is nowhere near as expensive as many people still imagine it to be, Aso added. The Olympic Games in 2020 - as well as the Rugby World Cup in the autumn of 2019 - have acted as a catalyst for the construction of new hotels across the country, including a number of high-end properties. Marriott International Inc. is to open two of its luxury "Edition" brand properties in Tokyo before the Olympics open, with another eight across the country by 2023. InterContintental Hotels will open a spa resort in the Kyushu resort town of Beppu in 2019, while Prince Hotels Inc. has plans for no fewer than 100 budget brand hotels across the country. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2pLvF Mass tourism concerns With all the developments in the travel sector, however, there are some who are concerned at the potential impact on communities that are not used to mass tourism. They warn that must-see destinations such as Kyoto are at risk of suffering an overload of visitors, in much the same way that cities such as Barcelona, Bangkok and Venice have struggled with arrivals that outstrip the local ability to cater to their needs. Public transport is increasingly crowded in the most popular destinations and hotel rooms are becoming harder to find, particularly at the busiest times of the year, such as cherry blossom season in the spring. People staying in private rental accommodation, known as "minpaku," are also falling foul of neighborhood regulations on noise at night and not adhering to rules about meticulously sorting household rubbish. In addition, foreigners' norms do not always mesh with local customs. Individually, the problems may appear relatively small and not a reason to get overly agitated, but there are clear rumblings of discontent. Last year, an article in the Asahi newspaper claimed that "endless crowds, unknown neighbors and unruly behavior" have damaged the quality of life for residents of Kyoto. A record 56.84 million tourists - both Japanese and foreign - visited the city in 2015, but one resident told the paper that the ancient capital is now suffering "pollution by tourism." More than 500,000 people from all over the world come to Comiket for the opportunity to purchase Japanese comics, called manga. There are 10 areas similar in size filled with dealers looking to sell their wares. It sometimes gets so crowded on the floor that it is impossible to move. Comiket started as a way for small publishers to get noticed, and remains that way. The vast majority of the people selling items at Comiket are independent from major publishers. If manga is not your thing, there are plenty of other items available at Comiket, including video games and music. Or perhaps a catalogue of former East German military uniforms strikes your fancy? Some artists sell very rare items that sell out quickly. This artist sold all of his merchandise barely one hour after Comiket opened for the day. Comiket also draws large manga and anime developers, such as ANIPLEX, to show what they have been coming up with. Another component of Comiket is the thousands of attendees dressed up as their favorite characters who walk among the crowd. The characters can come from manga, real life, or their own creations. Comiket draws the best cosplayers from around Japan. They can spend months working on every small detail to make certain their costume is just right. The Akihabara district in Tokyo is the top place to purchase manga and collectibles. The district is clogged with arcades, taking over entire buildings. Though manga and anime have long been considered as something for the nerds, they are becoming more popular, as this advertisement for a girls' baseball anime series (left) in the Shinagawa business district in Tokyo demonstrates. Author: Kai Dambach (Tokyo)