Actress Uma Thurman, an early star of Harvey Weinstein's Miramax studio thanks to iconic roles in "Pulp Fiction" and "Kill Bill," has accused the Hollywood producer of attacking her and threatening her career. Thurman told The New York Times in an article published Saturday that Weinstein tried to sexually assault her when they met in his suite at London's Savoy Hotel in 1994. Thurman starred in Miramax's 'Kill Bill' series Read more: The Harvey Weinstein effect "He tried to shove himself on me. He tried to expose himself. He did all kinds of unpleasant things. But he didn't actually put his back into it and force me," she told the newspaper. Thurman said she got to know Weinstein and his first wife, Eve, after the success of the film "Pulp Fiction," which was produced by Weinstein's company. "I knew him pretty well before he attacked me," Thurman said in the article. She said she privately regarded Weinstein as an enemy after that. Director Quentin Tarantino (left) and Harvey Weinstein (center) have a close working relationship Late last year, when the initial Weinstein revelations were reported, Thurman said she would wait to speak about inappropriate behavior in the workplace because she did not want to say anything in anger. In October, it was reported that dozens of women had accused Weinstein of sexual abuse stretching back over 30 years. Criminal investigations into complaints from six women are ongoing in Los Angeles, New York City and London. Many other well-known public figures in the worlds of film, music, politics and media have been accused of similar offenses since the initial Weinstein allegations came to light. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2lkqK Denials and legal threats Weinstein's lawyer Ben Brafman said Saturday that the producer had apologized to Thurman for making an "awkward pass" at her 25 years ago, but physical assault claims were untrue. Brafman said the producer was "stunned and saddened" by the accusations. "Why Ms. Thurman would wait 25 years to publicly discuss this incident and why according to Weinstein, she would embellish what really happened to include false accusations of attempted physical assault is a mystery to Weinstein and his attorneys," Brafman said. Thurman's statements in the article were being examined before deciding whether any legal action would be appropriate, he added. Through a spokesperson, Weinstein also denied ever threatening Thurman's prospects and said he thought she was "a brilliant actress." Thurman starred in "Pulp Fiction" directed by Quentin Tarantino, and was the lead actor in his two-film "Kill Bill" action series, both produced by Weinstein's Miramax studio. In the article, Thurman also accused Tarantino of making her perform a dangerous car stunt that led to her injury. A video shows Thurman crashing into a tree, and she said she left hospital in a neck brace with damaged knees and a concussion. jbh/cmk (AP, Reuters)