Demonstrators gathered in front of Bangkok's Democracy Monument on Saturday after the junta announced it would likely postpone the vote for a fifth time. A large police contingent was deployed to the scene, where protesters waved signs saying "disgusted with dictatorship," and chanted "the people want elections, the people want democracy." Thailand's military leaders pledged to hold elections soon after they took control in a coup in May, 2014. Since then, a number of dates for the poll have been scheduled, and then postponed. The junta says the delays were necessary in order to ensure national security and allow reforms to be implemented. Critics argue the military only wants to prolong its time in power. Read more: Little hope for Thailand's democracy Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1Iu8x Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the commander who led the coup, said last year there would be elections in November 2018. But a motion passed by parliament in January to defer an election law by three months means the vote will now almost certainly be pushed back to 2019. Growing discontent Saturday's protest was one of the largest shows of anti-government sentiment in recent years, and a sign that activist groups who want a return to civilian rule are losing patience. Organizers of the demonstration said a number of people were arrested for taking part. More than 30 activists are also facing charges for holding a pro-democracy protest last month. Read more: King Bhumibol funeral: Thailand enters new era "It is very clear that regardless of the fear tactics and intimidation and baseless charges that the junta slapped on protesters, they remain defiant and relentless in expressing their rights and their freedom peacefully," Sunai Pasuk, a researcher for Human Rights Watch in Thailand, said. "They are reminding the junta of their own promises to hold an election by the end of this year and returning Thailand to democracy." Yingluck's brother, Thaksin Shinawatra is a wealthy businessman and former PM of Thailand. As founder of the Pheu Thai party, he was popular among rural poor, but unpopular among rich elite. In 2006, Thaskin was accused of fraud and ousted in a military coup. He fled Thailand in 2008 and faces two years in jail if he returns. Shinawatra-affiliated parties have won every Thai election since 2001. As successor to her brother, Yingluck Shinawatra was elected as PM of Thailand in 2011. She enjoyed the popularity of Taskin's base but was also targeted by his opponents, who accused her of being a political proxy for her exiled brother. Before she was elected as Thailand's first female PM, she had never held a political position or government post. Yingluck's flagship policy, which helped her win the 2011 election, was a rice subsidy program aimed at her base where the government paid poor farmers 50 percent more for rice with the intention of providing a minimum wage. The plan backfired with regional competitors undercutting Thai rice exports, resulting in huge stockpiles and alleged losses to the state of $17 billion (14.25 billion euros). In May 2014, Yingluck was ousted from office by the Thai constitutional court after it ruled she had abused power in transferring a senior aide to another position. This was combined with months of public protest against a proposed amnesty bill for those involved in violent protests after her brother was forced from power. The Thai military took power and they continue to rule the country. The "red shirt" protesters, who are loyal to the Shinawatra family, oppose Thailand's elite, royalist class backed by the military. Yingluck's supporters see the moves against her as an attempt to finally oust the family from power and eliminate its political influence in Thailand. Loyalists to the Thai royal family, ruling elite and military are known as "yellow shirts." They say that the Shinawatras abuse their power for their own gain and accuse them of creating populist policies to attract the poor electoral majority in Thai society. They consider this a threat to the traditional ruling class. Multiple clashes between reds and yellows have resulted in dozens of deaths. In 2015, Yingluck was charged with criminal negligence and dereliction for her role in the failed rice subsidy scheme. She was also impeached for the same charges, and not allowed to participate in Thai politics for five years. She fled Thailand in August 2017, before a ruling on her case was to be announced. In September 2017, she was sentenced, in absentia, to five years in jail. Thai politics has been dominated for over a decade by a power struggle between the traditional elite and the Shinawatra family. Political scientist Wolfram Schaffar told DW that the goal of pursuing the Shinawatras has been to "weaken elements of direct democracy." Other experts say that Yingluck's exile leaves Thailand without an opposition figure and allows the military to rule indefinitely. Author: Wesley Rahn nm/bw (Reuters, AP, dpa) 