South Korean President Moon Jae-in has called on his ministries to devise "firm and resolute responses" to the proposal by the administration of US President Donald Trump to impose a new round of what Seoul sees as deeply unfair tariffs on a number of Korean exports to the US. The early exchanges in what has the possibility of degenerating into a trade war have seen South Korea deliver a wide-ranging complaint to the World Trade Organization in Geneva calling for Washington to lift duties of up to 60.81 percent that were imposed on South Korean steel products and transformers in May 2016. There are some in Seoul who also believe the tariffs contravene the Korea-US free trade agreement. Seoul is now hoping to convince the US to scrap plans to impose anti-subsidy and anti-dumping duties on steel and aluminum products – although Trump's "America First" policies will make that a difficult task. The US Commerce Department has released a report claiming that imports "threaten to impair the national security" and proposing a tariff of at least 24 percent on all steel imports or a minimum of 53 percent on steel imports from 12 named countries, including South Korea and China. The report also suggests quotas to further curtail imports. Read more: US 'America First' tariffs on washing machines and solar panels anger China, South Korea Is Trump using North Korea threat as trade leverage with South? Amid US pressure, Moon has called on his government to seek out new markets for South Korean goods Protectionist policies Trump has made no secret of his protectionist economic policies, which were front and center during the election campaign and had clear appeal to workers in US industries feeling the full force of global competition. As well as facing down the US in the WTO, Moon has called on his government to seek out new markets for South Korean goods in order to keep the nation's recent economic growth on track. But there is also a sense that while South Korea wants to keep trade and security issues completely separate, the US administration sees them as linked and that security, potentially, can be a source of leverage. "The US, under Trump, is using the free trade agreement with South Korea as a ploy to put pressure on Seoul as a way of encouraging the South to fall into line on North Korea and continue to demand that they halt their nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs," said Stephen Nagy, a senior associate professor of international relations at Tokyo's International Christian University. "Trump does not like to lose and he will use whatever tools that are to hand in order to make South Korea fall into line on this," told DW. Resorting to the WTO has, in the past, helped smaller states stand up to more powerful economies and Nagy says it is "very possible" that the organization may find in Seoul's favor – but any such final ruling would "inevitably impact the broader South Korea-US security situation." Read more: Trump's 24 hours in South Korea - North Korea, trade high on agenda Trump 'furious' over Seoul's North Korea 'appeasement' Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2szxA Limited push-back "Moon is able to push back to a degree, but it is clear that he cannot exert too much pressure as he must keep in mind the security guarantees that the US has historically provided," pointed out Nagy, who is also a fellow of the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada. Song Young-chae, a professor in the Center for Global Creation and Collaboration at Seoul's Sangmyung University, agrees, saying there is a sense in South Korea that Trump is exerting pressure on Moon's government because of some fundamental policy differences. "Trump is not at all happy with many of Moon's policies – and it must be pointed out that is not surprising given that these two leaders are quite a long way apart on the political spectrum – and the direction the government here is taking," he told DW. "The disagreement is on economic and trade issues, but that also spreads over into other areas, such as security," he said. "Trump is not happy at the direction Seoul is taking towards China and, in particular, North Korea, so he wants to change that direction." Song says there is a good degree of opposition to many of Moon's economic policies in the South as well, including the way in which he is encouraging unions to become more outspoken and willing to use confrontation with management. Read more: North Korea 'very willing' to hold talks with US Trade as leverage "I can understand that runs counter to what a businessman like Trump thinks is appropriate in business, but there is concern that trade is being used as a form of leverage for security issues," he said. Other nations in the Asia-Pacific region that do a large amount of trade with the US are watching developments very carefully as they are aware that their relationships might also come under pressure. Last week, Trump accused Japan of relying on a "variety of nontariff barriers" to keep US-built cars out of the domestic market. That is being interpreted as the opening shots in a campaign to force Tokyo to liberalize its market for foreign vehicles. In the Economic Report of the President submitted to Congress on Wednesday, Trump claimed that Japan has "unique" safety standards that serve to keep US vehicles out of the market, along with "hindrances" in the distribution and service networks, as well as "insufficient" transparency in the sector. "I like Gangneung. It's much smaller than Seoul and the pace of life is slower," says Seoul-based photographer Jun Michael Park. While this year's Winter Olympics are named after Pyeongchang, a conglomerate of small mountain towns, many see Gangneung as the heart of the spectacle. The coastal city with 214,000 inhabitants hosts the ice events which are particulary popular with South Koreans. The Olympic run on Gangeung is unlikely to pay off for these women selling dried fish at Jungang Market, as most visitors spend more time at the Olympic Park than in the city center. For Jun Michael Park, exploring the town with its long fishing tradition feels like walking down memory lane. "There are many quiet alleyways, kind of forgotten and left to decay." As the smallest host since 1994, Pyeonchang stands out against its former competitors - metropolises like Vancouver and Turin. The county in the Taebaek Mountains, located 130 kilometers east of Seoul, consists of seven scarcely populated townships and a town with 10,000 residents. What looks like a spontaneous power nap is in fact a focused search for the next catch. This year, visitors to Pyeongchang's annual trout fishing festival are braving the region's freezing temperatures and strong winds against the backdrop of the Winter Olympics. The fish are caught by drilling holes into the frozen surface of a stream. Local restaurants prepare the catch. Since the Netherlands are speed skating's dominant power, large numbers of Dutch fans traveled to the Olympics. Jun Michael Park met these friends and relatives of short-track speed skater Lara van Ruijven in Gangneung. "They wanted to try some local food, so they walked into a snack joint where I was having Ddeokbokki (a spicy and chewy rice cake) and Soondae (stuffed pig intestine)." In the cold of Pyeongchang and Gangneung, the warm welcome offered to North Korea as well as Kim Jong Un's bombshell invitation to South Korean president Moon Jae-in seem to have defrosted tensions between the bitter neighbors. This North Korean flag hangs on a building in the Olympic village in Gangneung. Raising the North's flag is usually prohibited in South Korea. While all Olympic teams are an expression of a country's hopes and dreams, this is particularly true when it comes to the joint Korean women's ice hockey team. These fans enthusiastically waved flags showing the whole Korean peninsula at a rally in Gangneung. It's the first time in 27 years that the hostile countries have fielded a joint team at a major sports event. Not everyone welcomes the exercise in sports diplomacy. Jun Michael Park passed this protest staged in Pyeongchang at the opening weekend of the Games. According to him, most participants were supporters of former South Korean President Park Geun-hye, who was impeached in March 2017 following a large-scale corruption scandal. "They want the US to bomb North Korea and to reinstate Park." According to South Korea, any future dialogue with the North would involve discussing the reunification of families separated by the Korean War. The Goseong Unification Observatory, located 130 kilometers from Gangneung, offers a view of the Demilitarized Zone dividing the peninsula. "The ribbons display wishes for peace and reunification, left by visitors," Jun Michael Park explains. Sports enthusiasm turns up in the most unexpected places, like this residential house in the village of Hoenggye. It features paintings of Winter Olympics and Paralympics mascots all the way back to the 1992 Games in Albertville, Canada. This year's mascots are a white tiger and a black bear - two animals deeply rooted in Korean culture. Author: Helena Kaschel