Tens of thousands of people took to the streets in rival far-right and anti-fascist demonstrations on Saturday ahead of March 4 elections. Some 5,000 police were deployed at more than 100 demonstrations over concern of a repeat of violent clashes that have marked protests in recent weeks. In the northern business hub of Milan, Matteo Salvini's anti-immigration party The League drew around 20,000 people, according to police. The party put the number at 50,000. Salvini slammed the immigration policies of the ruling Democratic Party, led by former-Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. "Italians first," Salvini told supporters in Milan's central cathedral square. Clashes between anti-fascist protesters and police erupted at counter-protest against the neo-fascist CasaPound movement in another part of Milan. Police clashed with left-wing protesters in Milan. In Rome, Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni and Renzi joined an estimated 20,000 people from left-wing groups and the Democratic Party on the streets under the banner "Fascism Never Again." In Palermo, Sicily, the situation was tense but peaceful at a rally organized by the extreme-right Forza Nuova group. Hung parliament Opinion polls suggest a right-wing coalition led by former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia, The League and the far-right Brothers of Italy could gain the most votes in next weekend's election but still fall short of reaching a majority to govern. Read more: Silvio Berlusconi warns of migrant 'social bomb' in Italy Born in Milan in 1936, Berlusconi started out his career as a singer on cruise ships in the 1950s before rising to become a major player in Italy's media landscape. He created the first (and only) Italian TV commerical empire, and created media groups with huge portfolios like Fininvest. He also owned the highly successful soccer team AC Milan from 1986 to 2016. Before founding his center-right Forza Italia ("Let's go Italy") party in 1993, Berlusconi enjoyed the friendship of Prime Minister Benito Craxi. After Craxi was forced out of politics by a corruption scandal, Berlusconi presented himself as a brash but honest, self-made man, a moderate and supporter of the free market. Forza Italia remains largely a party ideologically aligned around its leader. Berlusconi would come to dominate Italian politics for the next two and a half decades. First elected to the lower house of parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, in 1994, Berlusconi had three stints as prime minister between that year and 2011. He was repeatedly accused of corruption and authoritarianism during his tenure. Berlusconi formed strong friendships with world leaders of a similar ilk, including Russian President Vladimir Putin. He had highly antagonistic relationships with leaders who criticized him, such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He once caused a stir in the European Parliament in 2008 by telling then-EU lawmaker Martin Schulz he could play a Nazi in one of his upcoming films. After being hit with claims of paying bribes, abuse of office, tax fraud and defamation, in 2011 Berlusconi was forced to resign. He was accused of organizing hedonistic celebrations that involved sex with minors, called "bunga bunga" parties. At the center of the scandal was exotic dancer Karima El Mahroug. Berlusconi was first found guilty, but his conviction was overtuned on appeal in 2014. After avoiding major legal repercussions for years, Berlusconi was finally convicted of tax fraud in 2013 and banned from holding public office until 2019. Because he was over the age of 70 at the time of his conviction, he was sentenced to carry out community service in lieu of jail time. He works about four hours a week at an elderly care facility helping dementia patients. Although he cannot hold office, Berlusconi has been amassing a right-wing bloc that is currently leading the polls ahead of Italy's general election on March 4. Forza Italia has been bolstered by the support of the far-right Lega Nord (Northern League) and its leader Matteo Salvini (right). The Lega promotes euroskeptic and anti-immigrant policies. Berlusconi welcomes comparisons to US President Donald Trump in terms of populism, lifestyle, attitude and backgrounds. Shortly after Trump's victory, Berlusconi commended his focus on the "weak citizens harassed by the state, taxes, bureaucracy, uncontrolled immigration, unemployment and the danger of terrorism." Despite this, Berlusconi is keen to point out that he made his money on his own. Despite endless legal troubles and little legislative or economic sucess, Berlusconi has vowed not to step away from politics. He has vowed to remain the custodial leader of Forza Italia during his public office ban, and to contest another election as soon as he is able. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher The anti-establishment Five Star Movement is set to be the largest party in parliament, but it has repeatedly said it will not form a coalition with other parties. Read more: Italy's Five Star Movement feeds on voters' anger The Democratic Party is likely to suffer a major blow. Polling results indicate a likely hung parliament, resulting in possible political instability and market turbulence in the eurozone's third-largest economy. cw/sms (AFP, dpa, Reuters)