Peter Ghyczy never thought he would become a furniture designer, let alone one famous for creating a trendy design icon. Resembling a futuristic clam shell — or perhaps a UFO — the Garden Egg Chair has been the most publically lauded creation of the 77-year-old designer's career. Celebrating its 50th birthday this year, the chair will appear as part of a special exhibition "Peter Ghyczy: 50 Years of Functionalism,” opening February 7 at the ADAM-Brussels Design Museum. But as the exhibition shows, the iconic Egg chair is only part of the reason the German-trained furniture designer left his mark on late 20th century design. Peter Ghyczy's space-age Garden Egg Chair Drawing on Germany's rich design heritage The early 20th century was an eventful time in German design history, beginning with the founding of the German Werkbund in 1907 by a collective of artists, designers, architects and companies that reinvigorated industrial design. Inspired by the Arts and Crafts movement, Werkbund members created high quality household products and imbued them with attractive form. High design kitchenware from the German Werkbund One of the leading figures in Germany's modernist design movement was seminal designer and architect Peter Behrens, who took Bauhaus founder Walter Gropius under his wing as well as fellow modernists Le Corbusier and Mies van der Rohe. The Bauhaus school, which operated between 1919 and 1933, was led by now well-known names such as furniture designer Marcel Breuer, and artists Wassily Kandinsky and Paul Klee. By merging art and industrial design, the Bauhaus left a legacy of timeless modernist architecture and product design that Peter Ghyczy inherited when he arrived in postwar Germany. Read more: The Future is Now! 100 Years of Bauhaus Plastics pioneer Fleeing his native Hungary during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, Ghyczy moved to Aachen in West Germany and began studying engineering and architecture. As a student, he began a fascination with function over form that continues to this day. "I don't like illusions,” the designer recently told DW. "Whatever I do has a structure that is obvious.” Upon graduation, Ghyczy was offered a job at Elastogran/Reuter, a company in West Germany where he led the design department from 1968 until 1972 and soon began designing products with an exciting new material: polyurethane—aka plastic. His pioneering plastic experimentation fused a functionalist approach that won him fame in 1968 with his iconic fold-out Garden Egg Chair. Although the public celebrated the object for its form, Ghyczy's motivation was pragmatic — he simply wanted a piece of outdoor furniture with cushions that would stay dry when it rained. "Most people are disappointed because it was not the form I was looking at, but rather the technical solution,” he explains. Read more: Bauhaus around the world: How German style is interpreted in globalized societies Peter Ghyczy reclines in his plastic fantastic Garden Egg Chair Crossing borders Interestingly, the chair's story also belongs to Cold War-era history. Reuter decided to manufacture the chair in East Germany due to lower production costs. Eventually, the license to produce the chair was sold to a company in the city of Senftenberg near Dresden, where the chair was renamed the "Senftenberg Egg” and was mass produced for both the West German and GDR markets. The East German public could purchase the chair for the extraordinary price of 430 Deutsche Marks — nearly an entire month's wages for the average worker in the GDR, according to the Victoria & Albert museum, where the chair is on display.  When it became a collector's item in the 1990s, many falsely believed that the original design originated in the GDR. Read more: How East Germany influenced design But while the egg chair was all the rage in the east, by the early 70s environmental concerns caused plastic to go out of fashion in western Europe. Ghyczy moved to the Netherlands in 1972, founding his own company where today pieces are made in small quantities by a team of local artisans. For Ghyczy, plastics are more or less a thing of the past, yet his interest in a technical approach to furniture design remains. A new message Many Ghyczy designs feature geometrical forms that harken back to Bauhaus and Art Deco styles. Yet the designer is quick to eschew specific inspirations and direct links with the past. Designers should look forward, not only back, he asserts. This insistence can be linked to his experience of fleeing Hungary in his youth. Such tubular steel furniture classics by Bauhaus designers Marcel Breuer und Ludwig Mies van der Rohe only partly influenced Ghyczy's futuristic design vision "Migration can be tragic on the one hand, but on the other it gives you a new start,” says Ghyczy. "The person leaving is free to choose a new direction. Perhaps this is also characteristic of my work.” Read more: Why Brutalism is sending out an SOS This might be why his designs has long been considered "different,” he notes — which has been to the delight of some producers and the ire of others. While the Garden Egg Chair will be celebrated in Brussels, so will some of the difficult-to-place pieces from the last 50 years of Ghyczy's career. As such, the exhibition is a celebration of the designer's commitment to innovation. "In the best cases, we are making products that do not already exist,” says Ghyczy. "They say you should only write a book if you have a new message — it's the same with design.” In 1919, Walter Gropius became the director of a new institution, the Staatliches Bauhaus, also simply known as the Bauhaus, which merged the former Grand Ducal School of Arts and Crafts and the Weimar Academy of Fine Art. Even though Gropius was an architect and the term Bauhaus literally translates as "construction house," the school of design did not have an architecture department until 1927. In a pamphlet for an April 1919 exhibition, Gropius stated that his goal was "to create a new guild of craftsmen, without the class distinctions which raise an arrogant barrier between craftsman and artist." Combining influences from modernism, the English Arts and Crafts movement, and Constructivism, Gropius promoted the idea that design was to serve the community. The most basic principle of the movement of the Bauhaus school was "form follows function." According to this idea, simple but elegant geometric shapes were designed based on the intended function or purpose of a building or an object. Illustrating this concept, the pieces of this chess game designed by Josef Hartwig (1923-24) are stylized to suggest how each of them moves and its rank of power. The interdisciplinary approach of the school's professors and students meant that visual arts, graphic design, architecture as well as product and furniture design all came into conversation with how people lived in the modern world. They thereby actualized the concept of the "Gesamtkunstwerk," or complete work of art. This photo shows the interior of the Bauhaus school in Dessau. The school had many major artists among its teachers. This photo from 1926 features, from left to right, Josef Albers, Hinnerk Scheper, Georg Muche, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Herbert Bayer, Joost Schmidt, Walter Gropius, Marcel Breuer, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Lyonel Feininger, Gunta Stölzl and Oskar Schlemmer. Hannes Meyer and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe were also directors of the school. Although the Bauhaus is associated with minimalist design, students and teachers invested an unsuspected amount of energy in creating surreal costumes for parties, as reported by Farkas Molnar in his 1925 essay, "Life at the Bauhaus." The parties began as improvised events but were later turned into large-scale productions, such as Oskar Schlemmer's "Triadic Ballet" from 1922 (photo). Political tensions led to different closures of the school. After being based in Weimar from 1919 to 1925, the Bauhaus moved to Dessau (picture). When the Nazis gained control of the city council there, the school closed again in 1932 and was reopened in Berlin. It was closed permanently in April 1933, pressured by the Nazi regime, which criticized the institution for producing "degenerate art." Even though the Bauhaus school was closed, different members of its staff kept spreading its idealistic concepts after they fled Germany. For example, many Jewish architects of the Bauhaus school contributed to the White City of Tel Aviv (picture), where a collection of 4,000 buildings were designed in the Bauhaus style. It is a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site. Though today people might most commonly associate modern, affordable, modular furniture with Ikea, the concept wasn't born in Sweden, but rather inspired by the classic works of Bauhaus designers. This photo shows tubular furniture designed by Marcel Breuer and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe from 1927 to 1930. The Bauhaus school will be turning 100 in 2019, but Germany is already revealing plans for its three-year celebratory program that will involve not only the three museums housed in the former schools in Weimar, Dessau and Berlin (picture), but also at least 10 of the country's 16 federal states will participate. Expect several exhibitions, events, publications — and even new museums. Author: Elizabeth Grenier