The EU's chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, has warned his UK counterpart, David Davis, that a deal on Britain's transition period, expected to last from the UK's planned EU departure in March 2019 until the end of 2020, was "not a given" – a statement he specifically repeated in English before proceeding mostly in French. "There is little time, and we don't have a minute to lose if we want to succeed," Barnier told reporters in Brussels. The EU this week conducted more talks with Britain on a transition period after Brexit, in which London will have access to the EU's single market if it follows all the bloc's laws without having any decision-making powers. Barnier added that he "wasn't talking about a threat" but "if the "substantial disagreements" were to persist there would undoubtedly be a problem. The EU has been pressing Britain to flesh out its post-Brexit vision, especially on the nature of trade relations with the bloc. Read more: 

Remainers  launch campaign for second Brexit referendum On Thursday, Davis, who did not personally take part in the meeting in Brussels on Friday, had accused the EU of using "discourteous language" in a draft agreement published by Brussels, calling for the ability to sanction Britain during the transition period, in cases in which it would take too long to refer any breach of EU rules to the EU's top court. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sOBu Barnier baffled by UK Barnier appeared baffled by the UK's response to the draft, saying "I don't understand some of the positions taken by the UK," insisting that the EU had made its stance clear all along. Read more:

How  a hard Brexit could hurt Germany Barnier pointed out that divisions remained on citizens' rights for EU migrants moving to Britain during the proposed transition, and the UK's ability to object to new laws passed during the phase. Read more: The Irish border - what you need to know Regarding the Irish border, he said it was important to "tell the truth," namely that a decision by the UK "to leave the customs union and the single market would make border checks unavoidable." To avoid such a scenario, he reminded Britain that it had to find solutions to avoid a hard border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, and the Republic of Ireland, a part of the EU. EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April 2017 that divided the divorce talks into two phases. Phase I, in which both sides aimed to settle the basic terms of Britain's departure, started in July and ended with an agreement on "sufficient progress" in December. Officials are now holding Phase II negotiations on the post-Brexit relationship between Britain and the EU. London agreed to a formula for calculating what it owes in its "divorce bill" to the EU in early December after months of haggling by British officials. The current EU budget expires in 2022 and EU officials have said the divorce bill will cover financial obligations Britain had committed to before triggering article 50. The final bill will reportedly total around £50 billion (€67 billion). Both sides agreed in early December that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their residency rights after Brexit. British courts will have immediate jurisdiction over EU citizens living in Britain. But the EU's highest court, the ECJ, can hear cases until 2027 if British judges refer unclear cases to them. Britain and the EU also agreed in December that no border checks between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland would return post-Brexit. How feasible the commitment will be is unclear, as Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid customs checks at the Irish border. Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019. Both sides still have to hash out the details of the transition period in Phase II, including the exact end-date, whether new EU laws passed during the period will apply to Britain, and whether Britain can negotiate its own free trade deals. British officials hope to agree on the terms of the transition by March 2018. May has repeatedly said Britain will leave the European Single Market and the EU Customs Union. Leaving both could disrupt British-EU trade, but allow Britain to negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration — key demands by pro-Brexit politicians. London has said it wants to negotiate a new EU-UK trade deal during Phase II to minimize trade disruption before March 2019. Britain has also vowed to restrict EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that Single Market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. Author: Alexander Pearson ng/sms (AP, AFP)