*****Refresh the page for the latest updates***** 11:45 Women's Biathlon 10km Pursuit: Dahlmeier seals gold! And Laura Dahlmeier has her second gold medal at the Pyeongchang Games. A superb effort. She is the first female athlete to complete the sprint-pursuit double, finishing in 30 minutes 30.3 seconds. And there's a frantic sprint finish for silver! Slovakia's Anastasiya Kuzmina wins outs, finishing just two milliseconds ahead of Anais Bescond of France. 11:10 Women's Biathlon 10km Pursuit: GOLD MEDAL EVENT They're off! Laura Dahlmeier is the favorite here, she won gold on Day 1 for Germany in the biathlon 7.5km sprint. After starting in first place, Dahlmeier hits her first five targets and now has a decent lead over Slovakia's Anastasiya Kuzmina and Czech Republic's Veronika Vitkova. Every shot missed means a 150m penalty, so sharp-shooting is essential! +++11:30 - Kuzmina overtakes Dahlmeier, this is some contest! +++11:35 - Dahlmeier shoots all five, Kuzmina misses two of hers! +++11.37 - Dahlmeier shoots clean once again, and super fast - amazing. Kuzmina misses her first and that's got to be gold for Dahlmeier! 10:52 Women's Ice Hockey: Swtizerland all but seal quarter-final berth! Switzerland have made it two from two after a 3-1 win over Japan. Unless Korea shock Sweden that means they're through to the quarter-finals 10:40 Skeleton: Debut for Ghana! Akwasi Frimpong became the first Ghanaian — and the first West African for that matter — to compete in skeleton earlier this morning. Skeleton is a great spectacle, kind of like luge but headfirst. That's hurtling down a steep ice track on a tiny sled with your chin just centimeters from a grazing. Unlike luge, however, you also kick things off with a running start. Not for the faint-hearted! 10:10 Women's Ice Hockey: Switzerland in the driving seat Switzerland are up 2-0 against Japan in Group B of the women's ice hockey. Sara Benz potted both goals and as it stands Switzerland are through to the quarter-finals while Japan are heading home! 10:25 - Switzerland go 3-0 up through Alina Muller. 10:34 - Japan fight back! It's 3-1 now and a glimmer of hope as Hanae Kubo flicks the puck over the goaltender. With 11 minutes to go, Japan aren't down and out yet. 09:00 Summary So Far: Medal wons and to come It's 5pm in Pyeongchang but just starting the morning here at CET time. Jamie Anderson made it two gold medals for the United States in snowboarding, taking out the Women's Slopestyle. That follows Red Gerard's win the previous day in the men's comp. And Canada's Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir won gold in the team figure-skating. A record-tying fourth. And wind continued to play havoc on the slopes, the women's super giant slalom was postponed. It will now take place on Wednesday. February 14th, as will the men's downhill, which was originally scheduled for Sunday morning (CET). That means we have another five gold medals left to be determined on Day 3! Stay tuned! 08:30 Team Figure Skating: Canada wins gold Canada won gold the team figure-skating event defeating the team of Olympic Athletes from Russia (OAR), four years after having missed out on gold to the Russians Sochi.The Canadians had an unassailable lead after the men's and women's free skates before ending on 73 points for the nation's fifth gold medal in figure skating, while the OAR were on 66 and the United States third on 62 for bronze. "We believed in ourselves," Canadian ice dancer Scott Moir said. "We are really proud about the energy we brought and it helped in winning the gold medal. I think we had a sour taste in our mouth since Sochi. We wanted this medal for four years. It feels great." 06:50 Women's Halfpipe: Kim stomps second run! If you thought Chloe Kim's first run was something special - and you should - then you need to check out her second ASAP! It really isn't difficult to see why she's the favourite, nailing incredibly technical tricks with ease, whilst flowing down the halfpipe. McTwists and 900s seem effortless! 06:30 Women's Halfpipe: Kim setting the pace in qualifying From one snowboarding discipline to another, we now switch to the women's halfpipe. The top 12 from the field of 24 will progress to the final and the wind shouldn't be as much of a factor here. After the first round of runs, the field currently trail American whizzkid Chloe Kim, who laid down a stunning, risky and well executed run which earned her a score of 91.50. 05:50 Women's Slopestyle: Fuller on "tough day at the office" Given the blustery conditions and wind gusts which led to the majority of the women not being able to complete a full run, there were genuine concerns throughout the competition regarding the safety of the riders. Speaking to BBC after her second run, Great Britain's Aimee Fuller had this to say:  "That was a tough day at the office, some of the roughest conditions I've ridden in[...] "It's the Olympic final and everyone wanted to ride. It's not what I would have expected, or how I visualised four years of preparation would end up. If you were lucky with the wind, there were some calm windows, but it wasn't a true show of women's slopestyle, which is a shame for our sport. We still have big air, so we go hard next week." 05:30Women's Slopestyle: Mittermüller update An emotional morning for Germany's Silvia Mittermüller culminates in an emotional tweet. 05:20 Women's Slopestyle: Anderson defends title Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson has defended her slopestyle title to claim the United States' second gold of the Games after Red Gerard took gold in the Men's event yesterday. Canada's Laurie Blouin took silver, while Enni Rukajärvi of Finland finished in third. In truth we were denied seeing some incredible slopestyle runs because of the raging winds which wreaked havoc from start to finish. So few women managed to complete one of their two runs that we have been left wanting more, but it takes nothing away from Anderson's achievement. Germany's Silvia Mittermüller injured herself in training and was forced to pull out of the slopestyle finals. 04:50 Figure Skating Team Event: Daleman delights Having had to settle for silver in Sochi four years ago, Canada claimed gold on Monday morning. Gabrielle Daleman finished third behind Russia's Alina Zagitova and American Mirai Nagasu in the women's event to clinch the result. "I worked my butt off incredibly hard these past four years to get on this team," Daleman said. "We have such an incredible, strong team, and I'm proud to say we've won and I'm prouder to have been part of it." Delight for Canada who took gold on the back of Gabrielle Daleman's performance. 04:30 New norovirus update The number of confirmed norovirus cases near Winter Olympics venues has risen by 19 to 177, Pyeongchang Games organizers said on Monday. A statement said that three of the new cases concerned security staff staying a youth centre where most of the cases were reported. Athletes have not been hit by the virus. 04:15 Women's Slopestyle: First runs done The first runs of the women's slopestyle finals are in the books, but most riders have nothing to show for it. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson, one of the few ladies to complete the course, is top as it stands. 04:00 Figure Skating Team Event: GOLD for Canada Canada have taken gold in the figure skating team event before anyone even takes to the ice for the ice dance free program. Despite an underwhelming performance by 10-time national champion Patrick Chan in the men's free skate, Canada were in a commanding position early on the third and decisive session to claim their first gold medal of the Games. 03:50 Women's Slopestyle: Hitting the knuckle If you've ever 'hit the knuckle' on skis or a snowboard then you know what it feels like - you feet tingle and your spine feels like someone has just tried to play the accordion with it. Just saying the words gives me shivers. The majority of women in the slopestyle final have failed to complete their first runs due to very tricky conditions. 03:35 Women's Slopestyle: Worrying trend We're not seeing many women complete runs in the slopestyle finals. 03:30 Women's Slopestyle: Full quota of riders in finals After several delays, we're finally underway in the women's slopestyle finals. Because the qualifying heats got cancelled yesterday, we've got a full quota of 26 riders, with each rider getting only two runs instead of three. Now, the event is going ahead, but the wind is still a factor in these finals and gusts are making landings difficult in the bottom section of the course. Unfortunately that will likely see the women reign it in as opposed to going for the big tricks. We've already seen Klaudia Medlova and Carla Somaini suffer nasty falls on the big kickers. 03:20 Figure Skating Team Event: Just in case! 03:15 Figure Skating Team Event: Canada in commanding position We've seen sublime individual performances during the third and decisive session of the figure skating team competition. Fans will be treated to the men's, women's and ice dance free programmes. Here's how things stand right now - Canada are on the cusp of clinching gold. 1.  Canada     55  2.  OAR          48  3.  U.S.           44  4.  Italy           42  5.  Japan        38 02:55 Men's Bobsled: Snapshot! I don't know whether it's the high speed nature or the link to iconic movie Cool Runnings, but the Bobsled events at the Winter Olympics have always been a guilty pleasure of mine. Right now, I'm having to settle for pictures of training to scratch the itch! 02:40 Women's Slopestyle: Good news! Wahey! 02:35 Curling Mixed Doubles: Canada claim spot in the final The handshakes have happened, the game has been conceded. Norway knew they were beaten and Canada have guaranteed themselves an Olympic medal on the back of stretching their unbeaten streak to seven in Pyeongchang. Canada came on strong in Ends 4-8 and will now face either OAR or Switzerland on Tuesday for the gold. Norway had to endure a frustrating morning as they fell to Canada in the Mixed Doubles semi-finals. 02:05 Weather update from Pyeongchang 01:40 Women's Slopestyle: Delayed After wreaking havoc on Day 1 and 2 of the Games, the bad weather has struck again. The women's slopestyle, which had its qualifying cancelled yesterday, has now seen its final delayed by at least an hour. The event was due to start at 02:00 CET, but will hopefully get underway at 03:00 CET. 01:10 Curling Mixed Doubles: Spot in the final up for grabs Canada, Switzerland, Norway and the Olympic Athlete from Russia are competing for a spot in Tuesday's final in the Curling Mixed Doubles. You may remember that Norway had to battle it out with China in a play-off to reach the final four, clinching a deserved 9-7 win. Now in the semi-finals they're facing off on the ice with Canada, who were the strongest team during the Round Robin sessions. Read more: Recap all the action from Day 2 of the Winter Olympics 01:00 Women's Slopestyle: Mittermüller battling on In the other opening event, the women's slopestyle final, will hopefully have as many thrills and spills as the men's event yesterday. 17-year-old Red Gerard stole all the headlines after taking gold for the US, but who will steal the show from the women? On a quick sidenote, we're sending all our well wishes to Germany's Silvia Mittermüller, who is a little under the weather to say the least. We're hoping the adrenaline helps! 00:50 Figure Skating Team Event: Canada on course to claim gold The conclusion of the Figure Skating Team event gets the action underway today. Canada currently hold the lead, but Olympic Athlete from Russia are looking to repeat having taken Gold in Sochi. 00:35 Women's Giant Slalom: Weather claims another victim We saw the Men's Downhill and Women's Slopestyle heats postponed due to high winds yesterday and we've just had confirmation that the Women's Giant Slalom has followed suit this morning. "Due to strong winds and the weather forecast, today's giant slalom is postponed," FIS announced. The event is expected to take place on Thursday, the same day for which the Men's downhill event has been rescheduled. 00:30 Back at it again! Strong winds and an earthquake couldn't detract from the highlights of Day 2 as an Olympic record was set, while several nations, including France and the United States, won their first medals of the games. We're hoping the weather won't be quite as adverse today given that we have quite a session in store. There are eight more gold medals up for grabs - I for one am really looking forward to the women's slopestyle final and the men's moguls. Here's an overview of the events we'll be keeping our eyes on (all times CET): Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. Despite starting third, Laura Dahlmeier, 24, held off competitors in the Women's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint to win her first Olympic gold medal. "I have dreamed of this day for a long time. I still cannot believe it," Dahlmeier said afterwards.