A 6.4 magnitude earthquake rocked Taiwan late on Tuesday, striking around 21 kilometers (13 miles) northeast of the port city of Hualien. At least two people have died and 186 were injured, government officials said. The government said that the tremor has caused the Marshal Hotel (seen above) in Hualien to collapse, trapping 30 people inside. Officials said a second hotel, the Beautiful Life Hotel, was tilting. Roads and other buildings were also reportedly damaged. Preliminary information indicated that about 700 homes had lost power. A military hospital was seen tilting in the quake, and two bridges in the city were also reportedly cracked and could not be used. According to DW correspondent Andrew Ryan, gas lines and water mains were also damaged across the city. Popular tourist spot Hualien is one of Taiwan's most popular tourist destinations due to its location along the country's scenic eastern coast rail line and is near the well-known Taroko Gorge national park. President Tsai Ing-wen wrote on Facebook that "we will get into disaster relief work at the fastest speed," to the affected area. The latest quake comes just two days after twin tremors struck the island nation within two hours of each other. About 100 other small tremors have occured over the past few days. Taiwan's position at the edge of two tectonic plates makes it a regular site for earthquakes. In 1999, a 7.6 magnitude quake killed about 2,400 people in one of the country's worst natural disasters.  The most powerful earthquake ever recorded hit Chile's coast in May 1960. The quake, 9.5 on the Richter scale, lasted almost 10 minutes, resulting in massive infrastructure damage. Around 5,700 people were killed in Chile while the resulting tsunami left 130 people dead in Japan and another 61 in Hawaii. This picture shows the remains of Corral harbor in Chile's Valdivia province. The 1964 Alaskan earthquake, also known as the Great Alaskan earthquake and Good Friday earthquake, remains the strongest earthquake to hit the US to date. It occured on Good Friday, March 27, across south-central Alaska. The quake and the following tsunamis caused about 139 deaths. The picture above is from a small fishing village on Kodiak Island and it shows debris from houses and boats. A team member from Japan's Rescue Dog Association and his dog search for victims. Northeastern Japan was struck by a devastating earthquake, measuring 9.1 on the moment magnitude scale, followed by a massive tsunami. The natural disasters claimed almost 18,500 lives, and crippled the Fukushima nuclear power plant, in what is considered the world's worst nuclear power disaster since Chernobyl. The undersea megathrust earthquake, magnitude 9.1, triggered a series of devastating tsunamis, killing some 280,000 people in 14 different countries and inundating coastal communities with waves up to a 100 feet. It was one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history. A megathrust earthquake occurred off the coast of Kamchatka Peninsula in eastern Russia on November 4, 1952. The 9.0 magnitude quake caused a tsunami leading to widespread destruction and loss of life around the Kamchatka peninsula and the Kuril Islands. More than 2,300 people were killed. An 8.8 magnitude earthquake occurred off the coast of central Chile in February 2010. It triggered a tsunami which devastated several coastal towns in south-central Chile and damaged the port at Talcahuano. The quake and the following tsunami resulted in the deaths of around 450 people, while damage to the local fisheries' business was estimated at 66.7 million US dollars. An abandoned railway coach in Tangshan, China after an earthquake devastated the industrial town on July 28, 1976. The quake, measured at 7.4, struck near the industrial city in northeastern Hebei province. The official death toll is given as 242,000 but is believed to be significantly higher. Some estimates put the deathtoll at around 500,000. The earthquake, measured at 8.3, occurred in the Haiyuan county of the northern province of Ningxia and caused aftershocks for almost three years. As a result, up to 235,000 people died immediately. Many more, who were living in camps due to the continuing aftershocks, perished later due to severe winter conditions. A man walks amid the rubble of a destroyed building in Port-au-Prince following the devastating earthquake that rocked Haiti on January 12, 2010. With a magnitude of 7.0, the quake destroyed thousands of buildings and left at least 200,000 people dead. Author: Aasim Saleem es/rt (AP, AFP, Reuters)