+++ Refresh page for updates, all times in CET +++ 05:05 - The bobsleigh heats are over for the day now and Germany are in a strong position. Francesco Friedrich's crew lead their fellow Germans, piloted by Nico Walther by 0.15 seconds. They are tied with one of the Swiss teams. The final German outfit are a little further back in sixth, but still just 0.25 seconds behind. There will be two more runs on Sunday. 04:45 - GOLD FOR SWITZERLAND! After a tight start, Austria's Marco Schwarz loses his way, leaving Daniel Yule to cruise home. Switzerland are the first ever winners of the Alpine Skiiing Team event. 04:44 - The Swiss lead! Wendy Holdener holds 'er nerve (sorry) to put them 2-1 up in a tight race. If the Swiss win the next one, gold is theirs. 04:41 - Switzerland level through Ramon Zenhaeusern. 04:39 - First blood to Austria. Katharina Liensberger takes the point. 04:38 - Here we go. Austria vs. Switzerland for the first ever Alpine Skiing Team gold. 04:36 - Brilliant from Leif Kristian Nestvold-Haugen, who holds his nerve to take the point, make up the time with 0.12 seconds to spare and secure a bronze for Norway. 04:35 - The Norwegian skier makes a big mistake early on and can't recover. France 2-1 up, Norway need a win and to make up a decent wedge of time to get bronze. 04:33 - This one is even tighter. Norway's Sebastian Foss Seolvevaag  levels things up and there's just over a tenth of a second between the teams. 04:30 - Tessa Worley puts France 1-0 up. Tha one was tight all the way but she just kept edging slightly further ahead. The gap was 0.19 seconds. 04:23 - We'll have a suitably Alpine final - Austria vs. Switzerland - after the Swiss also sealed a 3-1 win. But first it'll be France vs. Norway for bronze. 04:18 - Austria have made it through to the gold medal match with a 3-1 win, meaning Norway will battle for bronze. 04:11 - So the semifinals will be: Austria vs. Norway and France vs. Switzerland. 04:10 - Linus Strasser wins the point but can't quite make up enough lost ground and Germany lose out by 0.16 seconds. 04:08: - Lena Dürr is pipped to the line. 2-1 to the Swiss, Germany need to win the last race to stay alive. 04:06 - Switzerland equalize and make back some of that ground. 04:05: - Germany's Marina Wallner takes the first point, with a huge lead of over 2 seconds. Big advantage Germany. 04:03 - Back to the skiing for Germany vs. Switzerland, the last of the quarterfinals. 03:53 - The four-man  bobsleigh heats are still going on and Germany currently occupy first and second positions, through the crews of Francesco Friedrich and Nico Walther respectively. The third German team is down in seventh but it's looking pretty good in one of the country's strongest events. 03:50 - We're in to the quarterfinals of the Alpine Team Event, it's rapid stuff. Germany are taking on Switzerland in the last of them. 03:41 - Linus Strasser is Germany's final man and he flies down the course to win his race and make up enough ground on his Slovakian rival to take Germany through to the last eight. A great comeback. 03:37 - Germany go 2-0 down after the first two and in big danger of exiting at the first hurdle but they get one back and it's down to the last skier... 03:31 - The German team face Slovakia next up. Italy, Norway, USA, Sweden and Austria have already booked quarterfinal spots. 03:30 - While that breathless final was ending, Alpine Team Skiing was making its Olympic debut. The event sees two male and two female skiers in a knockout format on the slalom course. The first woman goes head-to-head against the other team’s first woman, with the winner of the race getting a point. This is then repeated for each member of the team and the most points win. If it's a tie, the fastest combined team time wins. Got it? 03:25 - That's Canada's 28th medal of the games, a record for them. It's their 11th gold. Morgan's medal for Great Britain means the've also beaten their record Winter Olympics haul with 5 in Pyeongchang. 03:22 - Which means... GOLD FOR CANADA! Sebastien Toutant's first two runs were excellent and his combined score of 174.25 was enough to hold of Kyle Mack (USA) and Great Britain's Billy Morgan, who take silver and bronze respectively. 03:21 - Max Parrot is the only man who can disturb the top three but he fails to land it! 03:17 - Kyle Mack fails too. Of course, the competitiors are going for the big points but that's four in a row now. By my calculations, he's guarenteed a medal though. 03:15 - Torgeir Bregrem becomes the third man in a row to fail and - after such a promising start, he's gone. It's basically down to Kyle Mack and Max Parrot now, only they can deny Sebastien Toutant. 03:11 - Chris Corning has to go for a big score to get in a medal spot. He does, but fails to land it. Another one bites the dust. 03:10 - Sebastien Toutant just fails to keep his feet at the last so doesn't change his score. But he still has the lead. 03:06 - Billy Morgan lands a very tricky jump including a double grab and rewards himself with a huge whoop before miming cracking a beer at the bottom of the slope. The judges vindicate his joy, awarding him an 85.50 that puts the Brit in the bronze medal spot. 02:57 - That's the end of run 2, just one left. Sebastien Toutant still leads from Kyle Mack, with his US colleague Chris Corning in 3rd. Realistically there's probably six men who can get a medal here - the top three plus Torgeir Bregrem (Norway), Billy Morgan (Great Britain) and Max Parrot (Canada). Those last three have a shot because one of their first two runs scored somewhere in the 80s.  02:52 - Team USA's Kyle Mack has just nailed a Bloody Dracula. While it sounds like a dreadful 80s B Movie, it's apparently what the move where you grab the back of the board with both hands is called. And it's put him in second. 02:47 - Mark McMorris, another Candian and multiple X Games winner, has just made a mess of his effort for the second time running. He's out of contention and will be furious at failing to nail either run. 02:44 - Sebastian Toutant, of Canada, has put himself in a very strong position here with an 89.50 - the best run of the final so far - to add to his 84.75, that's 174.25 in total. That'll prove a difficult mark to beat. Torgeir Bergrem, who led after run 1, will need something special in the third run, his 42.50 just now won't do him any good. 02:31 - Quick update on the four-man bobsleigh. Francesco Friedrich's Germany crew still lead from South Korea. The other two German sleds stay in 3rd and 6th. There will be one more heat today. 02:28 - There's an outbreak of Gangnam Style in the snowboard crowd. The sooner they get back out there for the second run the better. 02:22 - Bergrem holds on to his lead after the first run. There are two more runs to come for each of the 12 snowboarders and the best combined score from two of the three runs wins. Can Norway extend their lead in the medal table early on? 02:15 - German crews sit in positions 1, 3 and 6 with 20 of 29 having completed their first bobsleigh runs. Norway's Torgeir Bergrem has just put down the first real marker of the snowboard big air final, with a 88.50. That might be enough to be in medal contention, but a long way to go yet. 02:00 - The first of three runs in the final men's big air snowboarding is about to begin. Whoever wins here will be the first man ever to claim big air gold, it's the event's Winter Olympic debut. Red Gerard, the 17-year-old American who won slopestyle gold (see below) is up first. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sTyK 01:50 - Some mixed news for the Germans after their first runs. First the good; the second four down, piloted by Francesco Friedrich, are leading the way after setting a track record of 48.54 seconds. The last German sled, piloted by Nico Walther and one of the favorites had a steady run and sit in third behind their teammates and the South Koreans. But the first Germans down were the most fancied and Johannes Lochner's men were a little shaky, clipping a corner early and currently down in sixth. No harm done really though, at this stage it's really about recording a time and improving as the four heats progress. 01:35: - It's over to the four-man bobsleigh first, for the first of two heats over the next few hours. The Germans are historically strong in this event, having won gold four times in a row between 1994 and 2006 and taken silver in 2010. The country's three teams will go off sixth, seventh and eighth. 01:30 - Hello again and welcome to the penultimate day of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics! After Germany's stunning upset win over Canada in the men's ice hockey and a 15-year-old restoring some Russian pride yesterday, we're hoping for more of the same today. The start of the day will mainly be about the Alpine Team Event knockout clashes, the four-man bobsleigh heats and all sorts of snowboarding before we hit a seam of medals in a few hours.  Alina Zagitova stunned her training partner, teammate and world No. 1 Evgenia Medvedeva to take gold in the ladies’ singles figure skating. A record score from the 15-year-old in the short program proved the difference as both scored 156.65 in the free skate. The result meant a first gold for the Olympic Athletes from Russia team and could herald the start of a skating rivalry for the ages. Things couldn't have gone any better for Germany in the men's nordic combined, as Johannes Rydzek took gole, Fabian Riessle silver, and Eric Frenzel captured the bronze medal to complete the sweep. Canada's Scott Moir and Tessa Virtue broke the world record in ice dancing total points with a dynamic, brilliant free dance to win the gold medal at the Pyeongchang Games on Tuesday. The pair also took gold in Vancouver in 2010 and silver in Sochi in 2014. Germany's Francesco Friedrich and brakeman Thorsten Margis thought they had won the gold medal in the two-man bobsleigh. Then Canadians Justin Kripps and Alexander Kopacz turned in an overall time that was exactly the same - meaning that the two teams shared this golden moment - and the medals that went with it. German pilot Nico Walther set a confident gold-medal pace in the opening heats of the men's two-man bobsleigh competition, with he and brakeman crossing the line with a combined time of 38.39 seconds. However, the Germans took the final curve a bit too quickly, causing their sleigh to overturn as they hurtled across the finish line with their helmets scraping along the wall of the ice track. German's Sinan Akdag was left face down on the ice after taking a check to the head by Tommy Kristiansen of Norway during the second period of their preliminary round game, which the Germans went on to win in a penalty shootout - their first win at the Olympics since Salt Lake City in 2002. Akdag was unable to continue in the match and Kristiansen was handed a game misconduct for the offense. Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. In one of the most remarkable Olympic finishes ever, Czech snowboarder Ester Ledecka won gold in the women's Super-G by 0.01 seconds. Having crossed the line, Ledecka looked shocked at her time. "How did that happen," the television cameras overheard her say. A three-month layoff with a knee injury had cast doubts over Japanese superstar Yuzuru Hanyu's appearance at the Olympics. But the "Ice Prince" became the first man to win back-to-back Olympic gold medals in men's singles figure skating since 1952.