Few Olympians will get a reception on the slopes of Pyeongchang quite like Chloe Kim. Not only did the newly-crowned Olympic halfpipe champion produce a jaw-dropping performance in the women’s final on Tuesday, sealing victory with an 8.5 point lead over her nearest rival, but the 17-year-old is seen by many as a local girl. Born in the US to South Korean parents, Kim’s return to her ancestral homeland gave a sentimental undercurrent to this competition. She was anything but though, as the teenager swept to victory with ruthless intent from the very start. 'Hangry' Kim raises the bar The last of the 12 finalists to emerge from the platform, the California native led from her opening run thanks to a flawless routine: Big Air, Frontside 1080 into a 720 and finishing with a McTwist to earn a score of 93.75. Smooth in style, technically flawless and relaxed enough to tweet between runs, it would have been enough to win the final without the need for two further runs. She slipped on her second attempt before eclipsing that marker on her third and final run, which included back-to-back Frontside and Cab 1080s and a McTwist, enough to earn a near-perfect score of 98.25. Chloe Kim during the Women's Halfpipe Finals on Tuesday Among her rivals, China’s Lia Jiayu came closest to causing an upset, her second run score of 89.75 enough to earn silver. Bronze medalist Arielle Gold finished with a top score of 85.75. Kim builds on Gerard gold Fellow 17 year old, American, gold medalist Red Gerard’s success in the men’s slopestyle took many by surprise, but there was an inevitability to Kim’s victory. Anyone who watched her performance in the qualifying rounds on Monday will have realized that this was no flash in the pan. Her score of 91.50 put her almost 4 points clear of her competition, making her the hot favorite to win again here. Or it might have done, had her pedigree in this competition not preceded her. Kim was already a 4 time X Games Champion, a Winter Youth Olympics gold medalist and had been widely tipped as a star for the future before these Olympics. Her performance in Tuesday’s final in Pyeongchang put an end to that discussion. Forget the future, she’s a star for the here and now.