Over 10,000 visitors are expected to attend the 22nd Berlin & Beyond Film Festival in San Francisco, according to the event organizers at the city's Goethe Institut. The festival, which will screen 18 contemporary German-language films from Germany, Austria and Switzerland, runs from February 9 – 15. The festival describes itself as "a gateway for the public to experience the diversity, history and progress of German-speaking countries; while celebrating the universal spirit and vision of filmmakers." Interest in German film from the United States continues to grow thanks to the recent multiple Oscar nominations for German filmmakers, as well as director Fatih Akin's 2018 Golden Globe win for Best Foreign Language Film with his film "In the Fade" ("Aus dem Nichts"). Germany: past and present Identity and belonging is a key theme of Berlin & Beyond's 2018 program. The opening night film at the historic Castro Theater is the social comedy "Welcome to Germany" (above), directed and written by Simon Verhoeven, who will be present for the screening. The film tells the story of a Nigerian refugee who comes to live with a German family and was one of Germany's biggest screen hits in late 2016. Touching on the 100th anniversary of Viennese art nouveau luminaries, the festival's official final film on February 11 is Dieter Berner's drama, "Egon Schiele: Death and the Maiden." The Viennese artist Egon Schiele scandalized contemporary society at the start of the 20th century. Berner's film looks at his life and loves. The centerpiece film of the festival, director Chris Kraus's "The Bloom of Yesterday," reckons with the legacy of Germany's Nazi era. In it, a Holocaust historian who is the grandson of a Nazi war criminal and a Holocaust victim's granddaughter fall for one another. The main actor, Lars Eidinger, will be present for the film's screening. Germany's Nazi and Holocaust history is examined through romance and thoughtful humor in 'The Bloom of Yesterday' Question and answer sessions follow many of the screenings, and all films will be shown with English subtitles. The festival also includes a youth program with two films, "My Brother Simple" and "Rock My Heart," which were selected by a panel of six North American teenage jurors. Encore screenings will take place from February 12 – 15 at the Goethe Institut in San Francisco and the Shattuck Cinemas in Berkeley, a university city located some 14 miles (23 kilometers) across the bay. Since its inaugural year in 1996, the Berlin & Beyond festival has shown over 500 German-language films. The Goethe Institut in San Francisco was established in 1967. It is part of a global network of 159 institutes across 98 countries that host and promote German-related cultural activities, as well as undertakes partnerships with local cultural institutions. Deutsche Welle is a signature sponsor of the festival. The first German language TV series produced by Netflix for the international market, "Dark" will be released on December 1, 2017. The first season consists of 10 episodes and tells the story of four families living in a small German town. The disappearance of two young children in surrounding forest leads to investigations revealing that something shady has been happening there since the 1980s. The series was directed by Baran bo Odar and his wife, Jantje Friese, wrote the screenplay. The Swiss director filmed a similar story with the 2010 feature film, "The Silence," another thriller that interconnects two generations of a family in a small provincial German town. As the title suggests, his latest offering is a lot darker and claustrophobic. The most expensive non-English drama series ever produced, "Babylon Berlin" started airing in Germany last October. Netflix purchased broadcast rights for the US. Three directors, including Tom Tykwer, recreated the atmosphere of Berlin in the 1920s for this period drama. The first German series to be produced by Amazon, "You Are Wanted" started airing in March 2017 and was also made available worldwide through the Amazon Prime streaming service. It was directed by Matthias Schweighöfer, who also plays the lead role in this series dealing with cyber crime. Despite dividing the critics, the show's second season is already in production. Broadcast on SundanceTV channel, "Deutschland 83" was the first German-language series to air on a US network with English subtitles. The show obtained a number of accolades, including an International Emmy Award. The second season of this Cold War espionage drama, titled "Deutschland 86," will air in 2018 on Amazon Prime. "4 Blocks," directed by Marvin Kren, is set in the Berlin district of Neukölln and is centered on different organized crime family clans. The series obtained rave reviews, with some critics comparing it to the US TV hit "The Sopranos." Since October 2017, it is available in over 150 countries on Amazon Video. A second season is in the making. Author: Jochen Kürten (eg)