Legendary Bollywood actress Sridevi Kapoor, who died in Dubai at the weekend, drowned in the bath after passing out, local police said Monday. Two officials who wished to remain anonymous said she appeared to have been under the influence of alcohol. Authorities said they had carried out a post-mortem on the 54-year-old and referred the case to the public prosecutor. Initial media reports quoting her brother-in-law listed cardiac arrest as the cause of death. Sridevi, who is often known by just one name, was in Dubai to attend a family wedding. Her body was due to be flown to Mumbai later Monday ahead of a cremation on Tuesday. Sridevi was one of the biggest Bollywood stars in the 1980s. She acted in a number of films that were huge commercial hits. She also campaigns against the sexual abuse of children. Rajesh Khanna is considered the superstar of the Indian film industry. He made a record with 15 consecutive hits in the 1970's leaving his everlasting mark in the history of Bollywood. The actor, who became a politician after retiring from films, passed away in July 2012. Vandana Luthra is known for her chain of holistic, scientific and completely natural weight management centers. She is also known for helping the victims of the 2005 tsunami. In India, Rahul Dravid is a role model for millions of children aspiring to become cricketers. He is considered to be one of the greatest batsmen India has produced. He is one of the few cricketers who scored over ten thousand runs in test cricket. Sharmila Tagore chaired the Indian film industry's censor board committee for six years. A veteran actress herself, Tagore has won many accolades for her work. In December 2005, she was chosen as the UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. Ritu Kumar is known for designing clothes for famous celebrities around the world. Her outfits have been worn by Princess Diana and Jemima Khan. Author: Roma Rajpal Bollywood legend Born Shree Amma Yanger Ayappan in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, Sridevi made her acting debut at the age of four. She went on to star in more than 300 films during a career spanning four decades. After appearing in Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada films, Sridevi eventually made her Bollywood debut in 1978 and became one of the biggest names in male-dominated Hindi cinema. She appeared in a string of hit films, including "Mr. India," in which she played a reporter, and "Chandni," where she played a woman choosing between two lovers. Fans pay tribute to Sridevi in the city of Bikaner after hearing of the superstar's death Following her marriage to film producer Boney Kapoor in 1997, Sridevi took a 15-year break from films before making her comeback in 2012 with "English Vinglish," in which she played a woman learning English. The following year, she was awarded India's fourth-highest civilian honor, the Padma Shri, for her services to the film industry. nm/aw (AP, AFP, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2oQTp