A German court on Thursday ordered a mosque to stop broadcasting its weekly call to prayer after the complaint of a Christian couple who live about a kilometer (0.6 miles) away. The couple in the town of Oer-Erkenschwick, near Dortmund, said the muezzin's call violated their religious rights. The Gelsenkirchen Administrative Court ruled the town had not properly assessed the 2013 request of the local Turkish Muslim community to broadcast the call to prayer. However, the mosque is still free to reapply for permission. Read more: Berlin Ali Baba playground opens after controversy The "Day of Open Mosques" has taken place since 1997 on the Day of German Unity – Germany's national holiday. The date was deliberately chosen to express Muslims' connection to the German people and how they consider themselves part of German Unity, the Central Council of Muslims explains. About 100,000 visitors are expected – here, some are seen standing in front of Berlin's Sehitlik Mosque. On this day, Muslim communities want to give visitors an understanding of Islam, so where better than an actual mosque? Far more than just places for prayer, mosques also serve as gathering points for creating community and social interaction. The word "mosque" derives from the Arabic word "majid," which means "place for prostration in prayer." Part of getting to know Islam is becoming familiar with its rituals and rules. One initial ritual before entering the mosque involves removing one's shoes before entering the prayer room. There is a focus on cleanliness and purification: before each prayer, Muslims carry out a ritual ablution. Because worshipers touch the prayer rug with their foreheads, the carpets must always be clean too. Most mosques offer guided tours, as seen above with this mosque in Hürth near Cologne. Here, visitors can get a picture of Islamic architecture, history and day-to-day life in a mosque, and hence understand more about how Islamic communities in Germany gather and build community. The Merkez mosque in Duisburg, opened in 2008, is the largest mosque in Germany. Integration work is one of the focal points for Duisburg's Muslim community. Besides guided tours through the mosque, visitors get the chance to attend noon and afternoon prayers. Afterwards, visitors are invited for a cup of tea. Experiencing an Islamic prayer is one point of the agenda for the October 3 event. But the actual area for prayers is off-limits for visitors. As can be seen in the Sehitlik mosque here, visitors listen to prayers from a grandstand. The word for prayer in Arabic is "salah" or "salat," which literally means "connection to God." This boy was given a chain with prayer beads during the Day of Open Mosques at the Frankfurt. The faithful move the beads through their fingers to repeat prayers and chants, just as is done in Christendom and Buddhism. This chain, consisting of at least 33 beads, is called "tasbih" or "misbaha" in Islam. The beads prove to be useful when reciting Allah's 99 names. Mosques in Germany open their doors for cultural understanding on other occasions, too. For instance, during the German Catholic Convention, Catholic nuns take part in guided tours, as seen here in the Yavuz Sultan Selim Mosque in Mannheim. Such occasions offer an opportunity for Catholicism and Islam to cultivate a close relationship. Mosques in Dresden invite visitors to cultural exchange as well. The Al-Mostafa mosque has already published a schedule of events: there will be lectures held by the imam about Islam, the Prophet Muhammad and the Koran, as well as conversation hours to share refreshments, learn and discuss. In a city where the Islamophobic PEGIDA group made headlines, this offering is especially important. Author: Helena Weise What the complainant said: "It's a kind of vocal chant in a tone that has a disturbing effect on us. But we are mainly concerned with the content of the call. This puts Allah above our God of Christians. And as a Christian who grew up here in a Christian environment, I can't accept that," Hans-Joachim Lehmann, 69, told tabloid newspaper Bild. What their lawyer said: "This is not to be compared with the ringing of bells in Christian churches. That is a normal sound and the call of the muezzin is something more," lawyer Wolfgang Wesener told the daily Rheinische Post. "Something is expressed verbally. Basically, it is a compressed creed and one is forced to participate." What the mosque said: "The call to prayer lasts for two minutes, just around 1 p.m., but only on Fridays," Huseyin Turgut, a senior official with the affected mosque told Reuters news agency. "We've never had any complaints and we have German neighbors who are much closer — just 10 meters away." What the court said: The court found that officials had not properly consulted with the neighborhood about the social acceptance of the muezzin's call during the loudspeaker permit process. It said officials had only considered the decibel level. The ruling did not agree with arguments that the call violated other listeners' religious freedoms. Read more: German Islamic associations denied religious lessons in school The call to prayer, known as Adhan, is typically issued by mosques five times a day. The call is sung by the muezzin, whose chief role is the call to prayer, and it is considered an art form. The call summons Muslims to prayer as well as communicating a summary of Islamic beliefs. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2f48C