+++ Refresh page for updates, all times CET+++ Gold medal events day 16 - Men's Four-Man Bobsleigh (03:15) - Men's Ice Hockey, Germany vs. OAR (05:10) - Women's 30km Cross-Country Skiing Mass Start (07:15) 03:41- Lochner's German crew step up, with little to lose. They know they need something special to give them a chance. But they can't produce, starting slowly and losing further ground on the second corner. They currently sit second, behind the Austrians but that's likely to change very soon... 03:33 - We're getting to the business end of the bobsleigh now. Johannes Lochner's German crew, currently in sixth, must wait a little though. They will need an absolutely blistering run to stand a chance of a medal. After them it's Latvia, Switzerland, Canada, Germany (Walther), South Korea and finally Germany (Friedrich). 03:19 - The bobsleigh is back for the final run. We're down to 20 crews and, finally, it's in reverse order, so Francesco Friedrich's Germany crew will be last to go. 03:17 - GOLD MEDAL FOR SWEDEN! The hosts concede and there's tears, hugs  and waves for the family from the Swedes. There are also tears from the Koreans, who join hands to bow to the home fans. Sweden win the first medal of the last day with a thoroughly dominant performance. 03:14 - Sweden are showboating a little here but still pick up the point to take an all-but unassailable 8-3 lead in to the final end. The home side are still being well supported though, they've really surpassed expectations in this games but come up short at the last. 02:58 - Not a lot of animation as the camera pans around the curling crowd. This one is done. South Korea pull a consolation back but the Swedish team are all smiles, they' ll be winning the first gold of today and their country's seventh of this games. It's 7-3, with two ends remaining. 02:48 - Oh dear.  It looks like the curling final is all over. Kim Eun-jung left her last stone wide of Sweden's two and the Scandinavians swooped in to take three with the last stone. It's 7-2 with three ends remaining and the hosts need a miracle. 02:45 - Heat 3 of the bobsleigh is wrapped up and Franscesco Friedrich's German crew have a fairly commanding lead. It looks like the second German crew wil fight it out with the South Koreans for silver. The final heat will be in 30 minutes. 02:33 - A bit of breaking news on Russian doping. The IOC has said it will consider lifting Russia's Olympic suspension after these games if there are no further doping violations in Pyeongchang. But they still don't believe the ban should be lifted ahead of the closing ceremony. IOC chief Thomas Bach said the two positive Russians tests in these games were "hugely disappointing" and "prevented the IOC from even considering the lifting of the suspension for the closing ceremony." 02:31 - South Korea pull one back in the curling, they are now 4-2 down with four ends remaining. They're still alive but Sweden are heavy favorites. 02:22: - We'll just pop back to the bobsleigh quickly where we're approaching the end of heat 3. As anticipated, there's been no movement at the top of the leaderboard. It must be said that the format here is odd. Really no-one outside the top ten crews has any chance of a medal so we're just waiting for the top crews to go down again. Of course, the other teams have a right to have both their runs but, unless I'm missing something - which is quite possible - the spectacle would be greater if the order were reversed so the leaders went last. 02:14: - A bit of rollercoaster of an end there but Sweden extend their lead to 4-1. It could have been a lot worse, there were a couple of points where Hasselborg's brilliance looked like it'd grab her team two or three but the hosts also had their chances. It's a long way back for Korea here though and a  lot of pressure on Kim Eun-jung. Incidentally, I've just found out that all five of South Korea's curlers and their coach share the surname Kim. According to the ever-reliable Wikipedia, that surname accounts for 22 per cent of the population in the Korean Peninsula. Here are three of the Kims looking a little like the three stages of shock, as well they might. Kim Yeong-mi, Kim Seonyeong and Kim Kyeongae in the women's curling final 02:03 - South Korea are in a bit of trouble here. Sweden have three in the house and the hosts have none. Kim Eun-jung needs to step up. 01:58 - Great stuff again from Swedish skip Anna Hasselborg who knocks out the Koreans with an exceptional penultimate stone that is on the button. Kim Eun-jung has no answer and Sweden lead 3-1 after four ends. But a quick Twitter poll on the Olympics account tells us it won't stay that way. 01:51 - With the fastest teams from the first two runs going first in the bobsleigh, there's unlikely to be any change at the top end of the standings for a while as the rest of the 29 teams have their crack at it. Francesco Friedrich's Germans are looking very good for gold while the second German crew look to be in a tight tussle for silver. The final run will be at 03:15. 01:45 - The last of the German crews rockets their way down the course. But they're losing ground all the time and stay in seventh, a full second back from their leading compatriots. Over in the curling, Anna Hasselborg has taken advantage of a Korean error to get on the coard with a two and Sweden lead 2-1. 01:33 - The Korean crew went down 0.13 seconds slower than Friedrich's men before Nico Walther's crew got off to a slightly sloppy start to finish 0.01 behind the Koreans. That means they are 0.42 and 0.49 seconds back from the leaders in the cumulative totals. 01:31 - The first German team has just finished their first of two decisive runs in the four-man bobsleigh. Francesco Friedrich's crew were the first down, after setting the fastest times in yesterday's two heats and flew down in 48.76. That's the mark to beat. South Korea are up next, followed by the second German crew. 01:28 - Sweden miss the chance to equalize. A bit of a defensive battle there, which ended with a single Korean stone at the far edge of the house. Swedish skip Anna Hasselborg couldn't take advantage though, her throw clipping the opponent's stone rather than hitting it square on. South Korea still lead 1-0. Also worth noting there's another battle at play here, with the winner of this match likely to finish above the loser in the medal table. South Korea sit just below Sweden, but both are on six golds. 01:19 - A more tactical battle is emerging in the second end, with the Koreans throwing a strong early guard. 01:15 - First blood to South Korea. After Sweden put themselves in pole position with a beautifully-judged penultimate stone, Korean skip Kim Eun-jung nervelessly glanced the red stone out of the house to give the hosts a 1-0 lead. 01:03 - We start off with the women's curling final between South Korea and Sweden. The hosts are big underdogs here, with the Swedes having picked up a medal in every games since the sport was first played at the Nagano Olympics in 1998. Can a crowd that's sure to be heavily partisan spur them on? We're about to find out. 00:50 After shock victories, sport-hopping gold medallists, doping scandals and plenty of toy white tigers, the last day of Pyeongchang is upon us. There are still four gold medals to be won and Germany have a decent chance of claiming two of them. The country has won four of the last six four-man bobsleigh golds in the Winter Olympics and, with crews ranked 1,2 and 7 after Saturday's opening two heats, they'll fancy their chances of improving that record. The Germans are not so fancied against the Olympic Athletes of Russia in the men's ice hockey final. But then, they weren't fancied in the semifinal against Canada. Should Germany win more golds than Norway in today's events, they will finish on top of the medal table for the first time since Turin in 2006. There are also medals to be claimed in women's curling and cross country skiing and, of course, the closing ceremony to round it all out. Alina Zagitova stunned her training partner, teammate and world No. 1 Evgenia Medvedeva to take gold in the ladies’ singles figure skating. A record score from the 15-year-old in the short program proved the difference as both scored 156.65 in the free skate. The result meant a first gold for the Olympic Athletes from Russia team and could herald the start of a skating rivalry for the ages. Things couldn't have gone any better for Germany in the men's nordic combined, as Johannes Rydzek took gole, Fabian Riessle silver, and Eric Frenzel captured the bronze medal to complete the sweep. Canada's Scott Moir and Tessa Virtue broke the world record in ice dancing total points with a dynamic, brilliant free dance to win the gold medal at the Pyeongchang Games on Tuesday. The pair also took gold in Vancouver in 2010 and silver in Sochi in 2014. Germany's Francesco Friedrich and brakeman Thorsten Margis thought they had won the gold medal in the two-man bobsleigh. Then Canadians Justin Kripps and Alexander Kopacz turned in an overall time that was exactly the same - meaning that the two teams shared this golden moment - and the medals that went with it. German pilot Nico Walther set a confident gold-medal pace in the opening heats of the men's two-man bobsleigh competition, with he and brakeman crossing the line with a combined time of 38.39 seconds. However, the Germans took the final curve a bit too quickly, causing their sleigh to overturn as they hurtled across the finish line with their helmets scraping along the wall of the ice track. German's Sinan Akdag was left face down on the ice after taking a check to the head by Tommy Kristiansen of Norway during the second period of their preliminary round game, which the Germans went on to win in a penalty shootout - their first win at the Olympics since Salt Lake City in 2002. Akdag was unable to continue in the match and Kristiansen was handed a game misconduct for the offense. Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. In one of the most remarkable Olympic finishes ever, Czech snowboarder Ester Ledecka won gold in the women's Super-G by 0.01 seconds. Having crossed the line, Ledecka looked shocked at her time. "How did that happen," the television cameras overheard her say. A three-month layoff with a knee injury had cast doubts over Japanese superstar Yuzuru Hanyu's appearance at the Olympics. But the "Ice Prince" became the first man to win back-to-back Olympic gold medals in men's singles figure skating since 1952.