The collapse of communism and the Soviet Union in the 1990s meant momentous change for Eastern Europe and Central Asia. But countries in both regions have since found themselves in a limbo state between Moscow and Brussels. In a partially-gilded saloon, NATO's top general, German lawmakers and interested parties gathered at the Munich Security Council on Saturday to listen to politicians and experts discuss Eastern Europe and Central Asia's geopolitical futures with Eurasia Group founder Ian Bremmer. Some panelists were relatively optimistic about both regions, not only for the countries caught in the middle but also for Russia and the EU. Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan said his country had learned that "geopolitical competition bears nothing good," noting that only by "combining interests" with other countries could everyone ensure progress. The question, Sargsyan said, wasn't about being caught between two political forces. Instead, it was about finding areas where Armenia's interests overlapped with those of Russia and the EU: "Only through cooperation can we cope with the times." Read more: Eurasia's fault lines move between sovereignty and democracy 'State of uncertainty' Moldovan Prime Minister Pavel Filip was less sober in his assessment, noting a "state of uncertainty" in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. For Filip, problematic domestic reforms, geopolitical tensions and different levels of military and economic cooperation with Russia were at the heart of this uncertainty. "All countries in this region face similar problems," he said. Filip pointed to Russian troops in the breakaway Moldovan region of Transnistria as a thorn in the country's relationship with Moscow. "We would like to build balanced relations" with Russia, he said, but only after the "withdrawal of Russian troops and Russian munitions." Looking west, he noted positive developments in Moldova's relationship with Brussels, including an association agreement with the EU that has led to a stronger judiciary and greater transparency in the country. Moldova's decisive push toward the EU gave the country a goal: EU membership. But for other countries, Pavel said, there remains a "lack of strategic direction." Read more: Moldova at crossroads between EU and Eurasia In 1991, the Soviet Union broke into pieces from which 15 new sovereign countries were born. Yet Transnistria, the Russian-speaking region in the easternmost part of Moldova, was not among them. The self-proclaimed "presidential republic" has its government, army, flag, emblem, anthem and even passports, which are valid in only three countries in the world. Anton Polyakov was born in the Transnistrian capital of Tiraspol in 1990, the year the region declared independence from Moldova. He has been capturing the daily life of Transnistrians since 2012. "For many, Transnistria is a new country without a past, but some see it as a continuation of the Soviet Union," says the photographer. Portrayed here is famous Soviet footballer Alexander Veryovkin. When Polyakov was 2, tensions between the country and the region led to a war, which was quickly put down by Russia's intervention. "People are still sentimental about the Soviet times here," says Polyakov. May 9, the "Victory Day" of the Great Patriotic War between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, is remembered across the region with battle reenactments. The Transnistrian government wants to be ready to fight on real front lines, too. Basic military training is part of high school curricula, military parades take place every year and body-building contests are hugely popular. According to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the region owns 20,000 to 40,000 tonnes of Soviet-era weaponry. The OSCE report from 2015 also states that Russian military personnel is still present in Transnistria, despite the 1999 Istanbul Summit deal to withdraw. "People here see Russia as the main guarantor of security in the region and want Russia's recognition," says Polyakov. Most Transnistrians voted for independence and potential future integration into Russia in a referendum held in 2006. With a population of roughly 475,000 and an area of 4,163 square kilometers, Transnistria is one of the smallest countries in Europe. Its GDP is comparable with Nigeria but higher than Moldova's. The economy is driven by heavy industry, electricity production and textile manufacturing, but the trade restrictions related to the Ukrainian conflict are bringing the region close to economic collapse. While there are jobs in the cities – albeit poorly paid, with an average salary of 180 euros ($200) – living in the Transnistrian countryside is a different story. "We may think it is great to live in the picturesque nature of the region, but there are no opportunities nor infrastructure. With nothing to do, young people leave and go to the cities or Russia as soon as they can," says Polyakov. The future of Transnistria is dependent on Russia, which views the region as strategically important. And it intends to stick with "the format of the existing peacekeeping mission in Transnistria," which essentially means keeping Russian soldiers there. "This is why Transnistria is still not an independent political player. This makes my home a hostage to the political situation," says Polyakov. Author: Jan Tomes 'Russia is Europe' Konstantin Kosachev, who chairs the foreign affairs committee in the Russian parliament, used the stage to criticize the EU for allegedly failing to live up to the Paris Charter of 1990, which set out the basis for relations between the Soviet Union and the West at the end of the Cold War. "The era of confrontation and division of Europe has ended," Kosachev said, quoting the charter. But he added that today's situation was "as far" removed from the charter's principles "as possible." The Russian lawmaker also questioned those who would place Russia outside of Europe. "Europe is strongly divided. But no, I cannot accept … describing Europe somewhere and Russia somewhere else outside of Europe. Russia is Europe," he said. Read more: Serbia balances between Russia and the West EU, Russia in geopolitical competition Kosachev lashed out at NATO and the EU for mirroring this geographic exclusion of Russia in their relations to Moscow. "Both organizations — with all my respect — are not inclusive; they are exclusive," he said. "Each and every country in Central and Easter Europe is provided a chance to join these organizations, but certainly there is one exception and this exception is Russia.” European Commissioner Johannes Hahn, who is charged with EU enlargement, didn't agree, saying Russia had previously been given the opportunities to start the process of joining both organizations. "Correct me if I'm wrong, but once there was an invitation to Russia in the early '90s to join NATO. And there was a clear statement from Russia that it would never join the EU because it perceived it as blocking itself, and that's OK — we respect that," said Hahn. Read more: NATO to beef up in face of 'assertive' Russia Whether Moscow was ever invited to join the military alliance or the ever-expanding regional bloc is still unclear. But for Kosachev, the past was the past, and Brussels and Moscow now "have to acknowledge" they are in "competition" with each other. The comment was a somber note to end on. But the conversation between Kosachev and Hahn felt honest and frank. That, if anything, is a step in the right direction. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.