Ex-Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi said on Monday that Italians were "not racist" as he promoted his plan to deport over 600,000 migrants. Berlusconi's comments came after a far-right supporter shot and wounded six migrants in the central town of Macerata, crimes that were fueled by the murder of a local woman, allegedly by an African migrant. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2s5I6 Twin crimes: What we know so far -     On Saturday, a Nigerian man was arrested over the murder of an 18-year-old Macerata resident. Her body had been found dismembered in suitcases. -     The same day, neo-Fascist Luca Traini, 28, wounded five men and one woman from Ghana, Mali and Nigeria in drive-by shootings. He told police the news of the 18-year-old girl's death made him want to "kill them all." -     Traini shouted "Viva Italia" or "Long live Italy" as he carried out his crimes. A raid of his mother's home found right-wing literature, including Adolf Hitler's "Mein Kampf" and works by Benito Mussolini. He is also a member of the far-right Northern League party. -     Interior Minister Marco Minniti has said that Traini was part of a larger xenophobic network, and motivated by "racial hatred." -     Italy has struggled to deal with the great amount of refugees fleeing war, poverty and famine arriving on its shores from northern Africa. About 119,000 people landed in 2017, a 35 percent increase on 2016. Born in Milan in 1936, Berlusconi started out his career as a singer on cruise ships in the 1950s before rising to become a major player in Italy's media landscape. He created the first (and only) Italian TV commerical empire, and created media groups with huge portfolios like Fininvest. He also owned the highly successful soccer team AC Milan from 1986 to 2016. Before founding his center-right Forza Italia ("Let's go Italy") party in 1993, Berlusconi enjoyed the friendship of Prime Minister Benito Craxi. After Craxi was forced out of politics by a corruption scandal, Berlusconi presented himself as a brash but honest, self-made man, a moderate and supporter of the free market. Forza Italia remains largely a party ideologically aligned around its leader. Berlusconi would come to dominate Italian politics for the next two and a half decades. First elected to the lower house of parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, in 1994, Berlusconi had three stints as prime minister between that year and 2011. He was repeatedly accused of corruption and authoritarianism during his tenure. Berlusconi formed strong friendships with world leaders of a similar ilk, including Russian President Vladimir Putin. He had highly antagonistic relationships with leaders who criticized him, such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He once caused a stir in the European Parliament in 2008 by telling then-EU lawmaker Martin Schulz he could play a Nazi in one of his upcoming films. After being hit with claims of paying bribes, abuse of office, tax fraud and defamation, in 2011 Berlusconi was forced to resign. He was accused of organizing hedonistic celebrations that involved sex with minors, called "bunga bunga" parties. At the center of the scandal was exotic dancer Karima El Mahroug. Berlusconi was first found guilty, but his conviction was overtuned on appeal in 2014. After avoiding major legal repercussions for years, Berlusconi was finally convicted of tax fraud in 2013 and banned from holding public office until 2019. Because he was over the age of 70 at the time of his conviction, he was sentenced to carry out community service in lieu of jail time. He works about four hours a week at an elderly care facility helping dementia patients. Although he cannot hold office, Berlusconi has been amassing a right-wing bloc that is currently leading the polls ahead of Italy's general election on March 4. Forza Italia has been bolstered by the support of the far-right Lega Nord (Northern League) and its leader Matteo Salvini (right). The Lega promotes euroskeptic and anti-immigrant policies. Berlusconi welcomes comparisons to US President Donald Trump in terms of populism, lifestyle, attitude and backgrounds. Shortly after Trump's victory, Berlusconi commended his focus on the "weak citizens harassed by the state, taxes, bureaucracy, uncontrolled immigration, unemployment and the danger of terrorism." Despite this, Berlusconi is keen to point out that he made his money on his own. Despite endless legal troubles and little legislative or economic sucess, Berlusconi has vowed not to step away from politics. He has vowed to remain the custodial leader of Forza Italia during his public office ban, and to contest another election as soon as he is able. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Far-right decries 'invasion of migrants' "There is very widespread social anxiety stemming from the presence in Italy of huge numbers of irregular migrants," Berlusconi told RAI, calling migration "a real social bomb ready to explode, because these migrants live off expedients and crimes." Berlusconi also reiterated his plan to deport "at least 630,000 irregulars." He added that Italians were "not racist," but merely wanted to "live and work peacefully." Matteo Salvini, leader of the Northern League and an ally of Berlusconi's, said that an "invasion of migrants" was to blame for the "social clash." Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of the center-left Democratic Party (PD), promised however that "violence will not divide us." Six people were reported injured in the drive-by shooting Why Berlusconi still matters: Although he is barred from seeking re-election, the scandal-plagued Berlusconi is still the spiritual head of his Forza Italia party. A bloc of conservative and far-right parties led by Forza Italia is leading the polls ahead of the March 4 general election in Italy. What happens next: One of Traini's victims was seriously injured in the thorax but is expected to survive. The other five had lesser injuries. Police are investigating charges of attempted murder with aggravating circumstances. Immigration policy is expected to be a key issue in the upcoming election. es/rt (AFP, dpa)