Bonn is known as the place where Ludwig van Beethoven was born, yet many are unconvinced that the city has truly exploited this unique selling point — the Beethoven House, Beethovenfest and various monuments dedicated to the memory of the great composer notwithstanding. By 2020, 250 years after his birth, Bonn's Beethoven connection will be truly evident, hopes the Beethoven Anniversary Society. The Society announced on Tuesday plans for the "Beethoven Story." Offering a pilgrimage in Bonn and vicinity with 22 informational panels, 10 of them in the inner city, the project is to trace the most important stations in the early biography of the composer, who moved to Vienna as a young man. Multimedia experience After inviting proposals from across Europe, the Society chose Müller-Rieger of Munich, a firm experienced in multimedia presentations, to create the "Beethoven-Story." Inscriptions and videos in six languages on square panels or flat columns are to be erected by autumn 2019 and remain there beyond the anniversary year. The house where Ludwig van Beethoven was born is tucked away rather unobtrusively in pink in the "Bonngasse" "The panels will expand the visitor's spacial experience beyond the particular location," said Christian Lorenz, the Beethoven Anniversary Society's artistic manager. "We were particularly impressed by the combination of the most novel technology and classic 'markers' of important locations. The panels will impact the city image and can be updated as needed." The visual leitmotiv on the panels are the five letters BTHVN, mirroring passers-by or serving as a space for LED screens. The Beethoven Anniversary Society chose five central themes to highlight in the 250th year after Beethoven's birth. One of them, "Citizens of Bonn," will find its central expression in the "Beethoven Story." What would Bonn be without Beethoven? The city is proud of its famous son and built his monument in Münsterplatz in 1845. Not far from there is the house where he was born, which is now a museum. Behind this fancy rococo façade, Bonn´s mayor receives his guests. The Golden Book of the City, situated in the old town hall, has been imprinted with many famous signatures over the years. From 1949 to 1990 – while Germany was divided – Bonn was the provisional capital of the German Republic. The old waterworks on the Rhine is an authentic place to reflect on Bonn's time as national capital. The German Bundestag sat here for six years until it was moved to Berlin in 1992. For those interested in history, tours to the old plenary chamber are available. With more than 850.000 visitors annually, it is one of the most visited museums in Germany. The permanent exhibition allows one to experience history since 1945. More than 6000 objects and documents can be admired here. An eye-catcher is Konrad Adenauer´s work car. The first German chancellor had a Mercedes 300. Where once the customs house collected its dues from seafarers, one can now enjoy a drink in the beer garden. Kölsch, a beer from Cologne, is traditionally served. Except people from Bonn call it "Bönnsch". Included in the experience is a great view of the river Rhine, the Siebengebirge, and the Post Tower. At 162,5 meters, the latter is the tallest building in North Rhine-Westphalia. Next to the Post Tower, Deutsche Welle has its headquarters. Employees from more than 60 nations produce multimedia content in 30 different languages daily. Those who are interested can look behind the scenes after registering for a tour. This extraordinary natural spectacle takes place annually in the spring. Tourists from all over the world admire the pink sea of blossoms the old town of Bonn turns into. Especially beautiful at that time of the year is Heerstraße, widely regarded as one of the most stunning tree-lined streets. The cherry trees were originally planted in the 1980s to bring some color into the old town. The Prince-Electors of Cologne once resided in this castle. Today Bonn university's scientific collection is housed here. The neighboring Botanical Garden counts as one of the oldest and most varied in the world. An inspiration​ for anyone with a green thumb, admirers of classical music also shouldn't miss out on the castle concerts that are held every summer. The hill known as "Dragon´s Rock“ is one of the most visited recreation destinations in the Rhineland. Those who are ambitious hike up. The others just take the cable car. The reward at the top is a breathtaking view of the Rhine, with the city of Bonn in the distance. Every first weekend in May the city transforms into an enchanted world full of light and color. In addition to illuminated castles and ships there are fireworks accompanied by music. These create a festive atmosphere. After the performance, people head to the Rheinaue to enjoy the various music stages. Author: Luisa Wolf