+++ Please refresh for the latest (All times are CET) +++ Gold Medal Events Day 13 07:33 - CAN YOU ACTUALLY BELIEVE IT? I cannot at all. Lindsey Vonn splits one of the gates with her skis and that's her race run. She will not medal. Truly incredible how many skiers have failed to finish with a medal within their grasp today. 07:26 - There are more twists in this Ladies' Alpine than in a William Shakespeare play! Shiffrin steals down the mountain and finishes fastest. Top-two finish for the US maybe? 07:23 - It is overtime in the hockey - and the Canadians look a little nervous. Meanwhile in the Ladies' Alpine, here come the top 8. Is it going to be gold for Vonn, or will she suffer the same agony as Norway's Henrik Kristoffersen and miss a gate? 07:11 - How many times have we said it this morning? Sport is the best! The US have equalized with six minutes left! It's 2-2 now. Is that the sound of overtime I hear? 06:58 - Now it's time for the slalom part of the Ladies' Alpine Combined. Can Lindsey Vonn add to her bronze in the downhill with an even better medal here? She is in the lead after part one and so will be the last one of 22 skiers to head down the slalom today. Ragnhild Mowinckel could well snatch victory from Vonn again though - the Norwegian set the second fastest time. 06:31 - Who wants these Games to end? Just fantastic sport wherever you look. Canada hold that 2-1 lead over the US in the Women's ice hockey final at the end of the second period. My best friend just sent me a text to say how incredible the reflexes of the goalies are. "Reactions of a cat" was the quote and he's absolutely right. So tense out on the ice right now! 06:28 - GOLD for Sweden! Can you believe it? Kristoffersen slips and misses a gate, a bit like Hirscher in the first run and the gold is all Myhrer's... In his fourth Olympics, the 35-year-old wins his second Olympic medal (won bronze in the slalom in Vancouver). Huge for him and for Sweden. What a dramatic finish! 06:23 - Andre Myhrer from Sweden leads! He will certainly medal. Just a question of what color now... Kristoffersen up next. 06:22 - We just might be! Victor Muffat-Jeandet has botched his finish and throws a good advantage to finish in fifth. A big surprise. The Frenchman looks disappointed too. 06:18 - Will we be remembering Ramon Zenhaeusern's name today? He still leads... 06:16 - Is it going to be the fifth consecutive gold for Team Canada? They're in the lead now... 06:05 - The top 10 approaches in the men's slalom as we step closer towards finding out who will win gold. The lead keeps changing, but right now it's Austria's Michael Matt who has it (brother of the defending champion Mario Matt). Also, Canada have equalized in the ice hockey final. It's 1-1 now, six minutes into the second. 05:41 - With just 25 seconds left in the first period, the US Ladies have taken the lead against Canada. 05:30 - The men's slalom second run starts and Pole Michal Jasiczek is the first up and the first one not to finish too. Hopefully we won't see much of that... Kristoffersen's time still the one to beat, but Myhrer and Muffat-Jeandet are also in the hunt. 05:06 - Time for hockey! Canada vs. US in the women's final. Canada have won gold in the last four Olympics, beating the US in two of them. Can the US end a 20-year wait and win their first Olympic title since the inception of the event? Time to find out! Read more: German hockey team's strong Olympics are no surprise 04:51 - You wait 26 years for Winter Olympic medals and two come at once. 04:45 - GOLD for USA! The standard here is just breathtaking. David Wise's historic run means he defends his title, Alex Ferreira improves on his remarkable second run of 96.00 to go 96.40 which gives him silver. And remarkably, 16-year-old Kiwi, Nico Porteous takes a bronze. What a day for New Zealand in the Winter Olympics! 04:40 - Kiwi Beau-James Wells delivers an awesome run, but he can't break into the top four. Then Torin Yater-Wallace has a go, but he hits the lip hard coming down and that is his challenge over. Ouch. The American scrapes his back on the ice and looks in some discomfort, but he can ski down. Gladiators in an ice halfpipe - that's what this is. 04:29 - HISTORY! The defending champion David Wise has had a quiet Olympics so far, but he has just become the first man in Olympic history to land four double corks and that gives him 97.20 and one hand on the gold he's looking to defend! Just incredible sport happening in Pyeongchang right now. 04:15 - Two hours after the first one, OH MY! America's Alex Ferreira responds in remarkable style to Porteous' lead by delivering a near-perfect run. 96.00 is the score on the board! Surely unbeatable? 04:08 - Is this going to be New Zealand's best ever Winter Olympics? Sixteen-year-old Nico Porteous has top spot after two runs in the men's ski halfpipe. Torin Ayter-Wallace has an incredible second run, but falls onto the lip on the last one to spoil an otherwise incredible effort. 04:02 - Well, well. Mikaela Shiffrin, the woman many feel will take up the skiing flag for the US after Vonn retires, cannot challenge the 33-year-old. Shiffrin is 1.98 off the pace. Vonn hasn't won a combined event since 2012. Is this the day that changes? 03:55 - In the Ladies' Combine, Lindsey Vonn is in the lead! She has just skied faster than yesterday and takes top spot off the lady who bumped her down to bronze yesterday (Norway's Ragnhild Mowinckel). The American points to the camera! Maybe there's a twist in Vonn's final Olympic tale? 03:53 - The men's skiing halfpipe is underway in spectacular fashion. After Canada's Noah Bowman laid down a big score (89.40), American Alex Ferreira went even bigger (92.60). That's run one done. Two more to go. 03:35 - The Ladies' Alpine Combined has started and we'll know the medal winner some time after 07:00 this morning. This is a two-part event, as the name suggests. First up is the Downhill, then at 07:00 is the Slalom. The best two times there will get you a medal. Switzerland's Michelle Gisin has set the early time to beat. 03:25 - Well, a poor 9th end looks to have cost Team GB big time in the curling. Switzerland storm in to score five big points (a rare sight in curling) and they now lead 9-5, which the GB know is too much. Switzerland have that playoff spot against the Swedish. 03:01 - Speaking of how great sport is, even the bronze medal winner in the Ladies' Big Air has a great story - and still just 16 as well! 02:58 - The first part of the men's slalom is nearly over. It's Kristoffersen, Myhrer and Muffat-Jeandet in the top three spots. Part two coming in just over two and a half hours. 02:52 - GOLD for Austria! Anna Gasser follows up her X Games win with a first Olympic medal. What a moment. Fair to say that was a fantastic exhibition of quality and bravery from the ladies there, and in true Olympic fashion it has stirred up some inspiration for perhaps future medal winners - at least for Stephanie. Who doesn't love sport? 02:49 - OH MY! Anna Gasser has just stolen gold out of the hands of Jamie Anderson. Under the pressure, Gasser just delivers a remarkable double cab 1080. Remarkable. The score is 96.00 as well! Just incredible. 02:42 - Anderson goes big and very nearly lands the 1080, but just at the end the back of the board hits hard and she slips into the landing. The jump is not judged, which leaves Gasser. Just before her Kiwi Synnott goes for it with an incredible trick, but also fails to land it. These ladies are bold and then some! 02:22 - Not long until it's medal time in the Ladies' Big Air. Anna Gasser posted 85.50 and 89 on her first two runs, and that second one was spectacular (Michelle said it better). But it's Anderson who leads still after a 87.25 score followed up on that big 90 to start. It will be a two horse race for the gold... 02:21 - Kristoffersen leads with 47.72. Sweden's Andre Myhrer just 0.21 behind him. This is the halfway stage, but it will be a close one to call by the time of the second run at 05:30 CET. 02:17 - Over in the curling, Team GB lead 4-3 at the halfway stage. Is a semifinal spot beckoning? 02:08 - The men's slalom has started. While this is just the first of two runs, the eyes of the skiing world will still be on Marcel Hirscher. Just before him though is Norway's Henrik Kristoffersen, a skiing talent. He registers the fastest time so far. And now for Hirscher... Oh my! The Austrian skids and falls early and that is his race done! He won't be winning treble gold at Pyeongchang! What a shock! Anyone's to win now. 01:42 - Watch out! Jamie Anderson, gold winner of the Slopestyle in Pyeongchang, from the US delivers a huge trick, grabbing the board and flipping around twice. Her score is 90.00 and that is the benchmark. The winner of this event in the X Games in Aspen earlier this year was Austria's Anna Gasser (last to run today) won with a score of 86.00. Is it already Anderson's to lose? 01:31 - Jessika Jenson from the US starts us off and well, doesn't do so well. She gets a face full of snow for her efforts. Fear not, there are three runs to score big. Over in the curling, Great Britain are playing Switzerland for the right to play Sweden in the semifinals. It's 2-1 GB after the first two ends. 01:27 - And so the day begins! The first run of the Ladies' Big Air starts shortly. Remember, this is a new Olympic event so whoever wins here, will be the first Winter Olympic Big Air champion. Not a bad record to have in history, I suppose. 00:45 - joeun achimimnida! I think that's the right Korean for good morning. In fact, it literally means 'The morning is good' and one look at the events on Day 13 certainly proves that. There are ten medals on offer, including five before most of the Western world wakes up. Of particular interest will be the Men's Slalom where Marcel Hirscher might win a remarkable treble gold. On the ice, it's time to find out whether Canada or America's women will take glory. And don't forget, if you want to get in touch with us on Day 13 of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang: Tweet us or drop us a line on Facebook to let us know what you think of the Games so far!