DW: "Blade Runner 2049" is the sequel to Ridley Scott's cult science-fiction film from 1982. Was that a challenge for you? Gerd Nefzer: The whole movie was a big challenge, but the main one was for a scene towards the end of the film that takes place in a stormy and misty ocean. We had to build a special pool in Hungary for that. We conceived a rain system, several wave machines and even water slides with tiltable, 2,500-liter water tanks to create the effect of waves collapsing over the actors. The water had to be heated because Harrison Ford, understandably, didn't want work in cold water; you can't work in cold water for very long. And all of it had to be built in a very short time — in just 10 weeks. This short planning and preparation time was the main challenge. Read more: 'Blade Runner' director Ridley Scott turns 80 Special effects artist Gerd Nefzer also worked on "Captain America: Civil War" and "The Hunger Games: Mockingjay" That was the scene where Harrison Ford sinks into the ocean with a bus... Yes. The car sinking into the ocean was also a mechanical effect. We used an oversized roller coaster rail that led from the land over the harbor wall into the water. The bus was supposed to slide slowly into the water, turn 90 degrees and sink completely with Harrison Ford on board. You overcame all the complications and got an Oscar nomination for the effort... Everything worked as planned. The director, the cinematographer, the actors and the producers were all very pleased with the outcome, especially with the waves. Waves are extremely difficult to create. The pool was 50 by 50 meters in size and five meters deep. Within this short period, not only did we deal with the construction and the technology; we also had to carry out tests to produce optimal waves. Read more: 8 reasons why 'Blade Runner' became a cult film Why was it so important to create analog effects for "Blade Runner 2049"? Wouldn't it have been much easier to generate them digitally? You can do lots of things with a computer nowadays, but it's not how the director Denis Villeneuve and the cinematographer Roger Deakins work. For them, it's important that actors are in a real environment and not just in front of a blue or green screen with splashes of water on their faces. Harrison Ford really was inside the car and had to fight the waves. It is much easier for the actors to act when they are experiencing the scenes, and they actually prefer it. Imagine if I asked you to go into a green box and play tennis without a racket on a non-existing field... Does the authenticity of analog effects still play a big role in filmmaking? Of course! There are many movies that are almost entirely computer-generated, but we can also build a different reality. That was very important for the director. The surreal atmosphere of the original film inspired the sequel, "Blade Runner 2049" Fog, rain, snow and storms are essential for the movie. How did you create that dark, apocalyptic atmosphere? It was a collaborative effort of all the people responsible for lighting, camera and special effects. We can't prevent the sun from shining outside, but many scenes were shot in the studio where you can control such things and create rain and fog with special machines, but the scenes must look believable. Then they have to be filmed properly. If you create rain without lightning it properly, it will not look like rain. It's always a collaboration between different people. Of course, many aspects of the movie were later edited and enhanced digitally. There's a technique called "set extension," through which buildings were added or snow landscapes were expanded, for instance. Read more: When science fiction becomes reality How detailed were the director's weather depictions for each scene? Could you let your imagination run wild? When we started shooting, we did not have to be very creative thanks to good planning. "Blade Runner 2049" is one of the first films to have a real weather schedule, a list of the weather that should prevail in each scene. So light, camera, atmosphere, fog, rain and snow tests were made in advance. The director and the cinematographer then checked them and corrected details. When we were shooting, we knew which type of weather we wanted and how to make it. When you're shooting outside, however, certain elements, such as wind, can get in the way, so snow flies in a different direction. But you can't really go against nature. Specific weather conditions were planned for every scene: Ana de Armas and Ryan Gosling meeting in the rain Your work on "Blade Runner 2049" has established your reputation as "the weatherman." Did you have to learn new things for the movie? Not really, but I had to develop a lot of new things. Being "the weatherman" is only a part of my work. Many people think of special effects only in the terms of pyrotechnics: a "boom" here and a "bang" there. But the environment — the bad weather, the pollution, the cloudy, depressed mood — were really important for the movie. When you watch the original film, you can see it takes place only in rain and fog, and it was an important aspect for the sequel as well. Read more: Why Luc Besson's megaproduction 'Valerian' doesn't copy Star Wars How big was your team? When we were shooting in the pool, for instance, there were 50 or 60 people involved in special effects to operate all the systems and machines. But you also need many people for organization, planning and administration. When you're working on such an elaborate project, there is a huge apparatus behind it. You have worked in the field of special effects for three decades. Do you work with international directors often? Yes. For the past 15 years, we have worked regularly with international directors; we have many contacts in the US. But we started as a small company. My first film was a Bavarian TV series in Munich. In the beginning, we made our living by working on films for television. But then we became well-known and now we work on international projects, mainly from the US, the UK, France or India. We have a good name in the industry, but it's been a long and hard journey. After the American actor Anthony Rapp accused Kevin Spacey of abusing him three decades ago, Ridley Scott cut all of Spacey's scenes in "All the Money in the World" in November and had him recast with the Canadian actor Christopher Plummer. The unprecedented move did not jeopardize the December premiere of the movie and both Plummer's appearance and the crime drama have received good reviews. His films burst with visual power and opulence, and even his more minor films boast stunning cinematography. In his best works, visual style and narrative depth complement each other perfectly. Ridley Scott, born in 1937, is an image magician — and has given modern cinema some unforgettable moments. He is pictured here on the set of "Black Rain" (1989). In 1977 Scott was 40 years old and making television shows and ads, so no one expected that he'd become one of the most sought-after directors in world cinema. But his feature film debut that year, "The Duellists," the story of two officers during the reign of Napoleon, showcased Scott's special talent: sumptuous images, a distinct visual style and cinema for all the senses. The film to follow went to a whole new level: "Alien" was remarkable in for its perfect combination of science-fiction and horror, complete with breathless suspense, bold cinematography and Oscar-winning special effects. For the first time, a woman (Sigourney Weaver) was the lead in an action movie. "Alien" went on to inspire a new generation of sci-fi thrillers. Ridley Scott went one better with the 1982 dystopian sci-fi film "Blade Runner," which featured more fantastic visuals and unique neo-noir atmospherics. Harrison Ford entered cinema history in his role as a replicant-hunter, and few films have inspired so many imitators — a sequel was also released in 2017. The original "Blade Runner" remains one of the greatest cult films of all time. After excursions into fantasy, action and thriller, Scott landed another coup in 1991 with "Thelma & Louise." The story of two very different friends who just want to escape their dreary everyday lives becomes a wild road movie stretching across America. It was another film with strong cinematography and a quirky story that also featured Brad Pitt in a breakout role. Almost a decade later, Scott's next major international success came with "Gladiator," a grand Roman Empire epic. The blood and swords action drama won five Oscars (including Best Actor for Russell Crowe, who played the revengeful Roman general turned gladiator) and a nomination for Scott. It was another work with a compelling narrative and brilliant cinematography. Following his trip to antiquity, the following year Scott released his first war film, "Black Hawk Down" (2001), and proved he was able to create breathless tension in yet another genre. Tracing an episode involving US soldiers during the 1993 Battle of Mogadishu in Somalia, the film also created controversy for its "airbrushed" depiction of American military involvement in a civil war. Scott's next project was the sequel to the worldwide hit, "The Silence of the Lambs." The serial killer Hannibal Lecter was in good hands with Scott, who pulled out all the stops in his return to the horror suspense genre. Nevertheless, Scott struggled to replicate the massive success of the original Hannibal movie, and the 2001 film is today regarded as one of his minor works. Scott took another trip into history with his 2010 action film "Robin Hood," a potent re-imagining of the legendary story of the do-gooder who helps the poor. "Grown-up but not too serious; action-packed but not juvenile…[it's] the Robin Hood movie we’ve been waiting decades for, it's also Ridley Scott and Russell Crowe at their most entertaining since 'Gladiator,'" said one critic. Ridley Scott belongs to the handful of very powerful Hollywood directors who can freely choose their subjects and actors. So it proved with the A-list cast — Michael Fassbender, Penelope Cruz, Cameron Diaz, Javier Bardem, Brad Pitt — assembled for the British director's 2013 drug thriller "The Counselor." Top stars want to work with Scott. The film received a mixed response, however. Author: Jochen Kürten (sb)