Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro on Wednesday called for a snap general election to coincide with the presidential vote on April 22. Maduro said the general election should include parliament, state councils and municipal bodies to ensure a "comprehensive renovation." The president said the all-powerful Constituent Assembly will decide on whether to hold parliamentary elections two years earlier than scheduled. If Venezuela moves forward with a general election, it could upend opposition control of parliament after the Democratic Unity Roundtable (MUD), Venezuela's main opposition alliance, announced a boycott of the presidential election earlier on Wednesday. Read more: 5 things to know understand about oil-rich, cash-poor Venezuela Calls for boycott The opposition coalition said it could not participate in the presidential election without guarantees from the government that the vote would be free and fair. MUD demanded that the presidential election take place in the "second half of 2018" and held under a "balanced" electoral commission with the participation of independent international election monitors. Read more: Who makes up Venezuela's political opposition? "In the name of the immense majority of Venezuelans, we challenge the Maduro government to measure itself against the people in real elections" later this year, the coalition said. Shortly after the opposition's announcement, Maduro said the election will go forward no matter the circumstances. "We are going to the elections come rain, shine or lightning, with or without the MUD," he said. Maduro has vowed to go forward with a presidential election despite opposition calls for a "free and fair" vote Struggling The Venezuelan government has struggled to deal with an economic crisis after oil prices collapsed in 2014. Maduro has witnessed support for his presidency plummet after his government failed to redress chronic shortages of food, medicine and basic supplies. Read more: For Venezuela HIV patients, lack of medicine 'a death sentence' Last year, Venezuela was rocked by near-daily anti-government protests that left more than 100 people dead in the first half of the year. However, demonstrations slowed down after the Constituent Assembly stripped the opposition-held parliament of its legislative powers in August. Meanwhile, the government has forced out allies-turned-critics from key positions, including former Attorney General Luisa Ortega Diaz. Analysts believe Maduro is attempting to consolidate power as he heads into presidential elections practically uncontested for a second six-year term. Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have since taken to the streets to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping. As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities. An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures. Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006. Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses. From the governor of Miranda to the mayor of Venezuela's capital Caracas, authorities have attempted to quash anti-government protests by arresting its opposition leaders. Venezuelan authorities have detained Leopoldo Lopez, Antonio Ledezma and Henrique Capriles, considered the face of the opposition movement. Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its efforts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers. Since the outbreak of explosive protests in April, scores of people have died and hundreds more have been injured. Rights campaigners say police have arrested thousands. Meanwhile, the government has pushed through with the election of an all-powerful constituent assembly, which critics are afraid will cement Maduro's grasp on power. Venezuela's pro-government constituent assembly has adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues affecting security and sovereignty, effectively taking away the powers of the country's congress, which was under the opposition's leadership. During its first session, the National Assembly fired former top prosecutor Luisa Ortega, who subsequently fled to Colombia. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union have imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In November, the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion. US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Whatever the consequences of a default, creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. Author: Kathleen Schuster ls/sms (AFP, EFE, Reuters)