Police in western Switzerland appealed for witnesses on Friday after armed robbers clad in black clothing and balaclavas escaped with up to €26 million ($31.8 million). "The thieves fled to an unknown destination," police in the Swiss canton of Vaud said in a statement. The drama began late Thursday, when the assailants, posing as plumbers, kidnapped the daughter of a security guard from her apartment in the southeastern French city of Lyon, investigators said. Read more: Paris thieves steal millions in highway heist Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2gQZo The 22-year-old told police she was tied up, bundled into a car, and forced to phone her father, who transports money in armored vehicles for a Swiss security company. Police said the father was en route to Lausanne to make a delivery with a colleague when the call came through, and he agreed to meet the kidnappers in a car park on the Swiss side of the border. "There, several armed men who were awaiting the van made him park it. They…completely emptied the van's contents and fled in a dark-colored Porsche SUV," Swiss police said in a statement, without specifying how much money was stolen. Read more: Police hunt for more Ritz robbers after stolen jewels found Police sources quoted by news agencies said the van was carrying "between 20 and 30 million Swiss francs (€17-26 million, $21-32 million)." No one was injured during the heist. Investigators said the security guard's daughter was later found on the side of a road north of Lyon. Police said they had launched a criminal probe into the robbery and were searching for three men with accented French. Read more: The most spectacular art robberies in history The world's most famous portrait, Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa," was stolen in 1911. A young Italian named Vincenzo Peruggia took the painting from the Louvre in Paris. Dressed like a member of the museum staff, he was able to hide the relatively small painting under his work coat. It reappeared in 1913 after an art dealer alerted the police Rembrandt's portrait of "Jacques III de Gheyn" wasn't stolen from Britain's Dulwich Picture Gallery just once, but four times, namely in 1966, 1973, 1981 and 1986. That's why it came to be nicknamed "takeaway Rembrandt." But, fortunately, after each theft, the painting was recovered. The burglary of 13 paintings from the Isabella Steward Gardner Museum stirred international attention in 1990. Two men disguised as policemen broke into the building and removed the paintings, among them Edouard Manet's "Chez Tortoni" and Jan Vermeer's "Concert" (pictured). The empty picture frames are still hanging on the walls. In 1991, a man managed to lock himself into a bathroom in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam - unnoticed. With the help of a warden, he removed a total of 20 paintings, among them the Dutch painter's "Self portrait with Easel." However, police were able to recoverthe booty in the getaway car just one hour later, The thieves were caught a few months later. "Madonna of the Yarnwinder" by Leonardo da Vinci, estimated at 70 million euros ($76 million) was stolen from a Scottish castle in 2003. Two thieves who entered an exhibition as tourists overpowered the security guard at Drumlanrig Castle and fled with the precious artwork. It remained lost for years until it was discovered during a raid in Glasgow in 2007. Two paintings by expressionist Edvard Munch, "The Scream" and "Madonna," were stolen in Oslo in 2004. Two armed robbers invaded the Munch Museum and, witnessed by numerous visitors, ripped the paintings from the wall. Police were able to retrieve the two famous paintings. However, "The Scream" was damaged so badly during the incident that it could never be fully restored. In 2008, armed thieves pilfered four paintings amounting to a total value of 180 million Swiss francs ($182 million) from the collection Bührle in Zurich. "The Boy in the Red Vest" by Paul Cézanne, "Ludovic Lepic and His Daughters" by Edgar Degas, "Blossoming Chestnut Branches" by Vincent van Gogh, and "Poppy Field Near Vétheuil" by Claude Monet (pictured) all resurfaced later on. In March 2017, a huge gold coin weighing 100 kilos was stolen from Berlin's Bode Museum. Just its sheer material value alone amounts to four million dollars. It is believed that the thieves found their way into the building through a window. The "Big Maple Leaf" coin originated in Canada. It is 53 cm high and 3 cm thick. On the front side, it bears an image of Queen Elizabeth II. Author: Ines Eisele (ad) nm/bw (Reuters, AFP, dpa) 