Residents of Rome awoke on Monday to find the city transformed into a winter wonderland after its heaviest snowfall in six years. The Italian capital usually experiences mild winters thanks to its Mediterranean climate. But an Arctic storm passing over much of Europe dumped enough snow to shut down schools and severely disrupt public transport. Read more: Record snowfall hits Moscow, downing thousands of trees In St. Peter's Square, priests and seminarians from the Vatican threw snowballs at each other. Rome rarely sees snow, but when it does, public transport grinds to a near halt. Rome's Mayor Virginia Raggi even ordered public schools closed, and many private ones followed suit. The Colosseum was shut along with the nearby Roman Forum and the Palatine Hill, while authorities urged people to stay at home as much as possible. Of course, these kids did not follow these instructions, but took their chances and went to play in the snowy parks of the city. Rome's Mediterranean climate usually results in mild winters. On this account restaurants often keep outdoor seating open even through the coldest months of the year. Roman parks that usually stay green through winter were blanketed with snow, and even the Circo Massimo became a hotspot for snowball fights, while Piazza Navona, with its famed Bernini fountains, turned into a snow-dusted winter wonderland. The city, which is not equipped to deal with snow emergencies due to their rarity, asked other areas to send in snow ploughs to help clear roads. Rome’s major airport Fiumicino, was forced to operate with only one runway during the night, when 10 cm (4 inches) of snow fell in less than four hours. Author: Nadine Berghausen Italy's civil protection agency announced it had decided to dispatch the army to clear snow-clogged streets, adding that volunteers would be sent to help commuters stranded at train stations. One runway was open at Rome's main Fiumicino Airport, while its second hub at Ciampino was closed overnight due to the snow. Ryanair said it had canceled all flights to and from the airport. Read more: Several deaths reported as cold weather grips Europe A number of major tourist sites were also shut, including the Colosseum, the Roman Forum and the Palatine Hill. People walk past the Pantheon in downtown Rome during a snowstorm Many Romans came out to enjoy the unusual conditions, taking photographs of snow-dusted streets, staging snowball fights and sledding down slopes. About 3-4 centimeters (1.2-1.6 inches) of snow settled in Rome overnight. Although it's not much, the dusting was the city's first real snowfall since February 2012. No more snow is forecast, but temperatures are expected to hover around zero degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit) until Wednesday. Read more: Freak weather conditions in holiday regions The storm also brought snow to several other cities in central and northern Italy, causing school closures and severe disruptions to public transport. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2p8LH Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. nm/kms (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa)