"It is with great sadness that we learn of the passing of our dear friend Lewis Gilbert," producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli said in a statement on Tuesday. Described by the producers as a "a true gentleman," Gilbert directed three classics in the 007 thriller series — "You Only Live Twice" (1967) starring Sean Connery, as well as ''The Spy Who Loved Me" (1977) and "Moonraker" (1979) with Roger Moore as Bond. Read more: James Bond? Or Jane Bond? Roger more had actually wanted to become a painter. But then he served in the British military and changed his plans. In 1953, Moore, of modest means at the time, moved to the US. He embarked on the film career that would make him world famous. Here are some of the British star's most significant roles. Working against drug lords and corrupt authorities, the charming gentleman Simon Templar alias Roger Moore investigated cases around the world and rescued women — Robin Hood-style — in dangerous situations. The TV series from 1962 was broadcast in 90 countries and launched Moore to global fame. They drive expensive cars, wear classy suits and chase ruthless gangsters. Roger Moore and Tony Curtis were the cool guys of their day. As the aristocrat Lord Brett Sinclair (Moore, left) and the American playboy Danny Wild (Curtis, right), the duo achieved cult status in the early 1970s in the series "The Persuaders." Roger Moore played the role of the womanizing Agent 007 seven times — as many times as Sean Connery. But Moore gave Bond a fresh image in 1973. Instead of smoking cigarettes, he preferred cigars, and instead of bourbon, he drank whisky. He also brought a great deal of irony and British humor to the role. With Roger Moore in the lead, the James Bond film "Moonraker" from 1979 is one of the most successful in the series. In the film, a space shuttle is stolen and Agent 007 is sent to the rescue. Moore portrays the British agent as an eloquent hero who doesn't even lose a drop of sweat in the most stressful of situations. In October 2007, Roger Moore was honored with a star on Hollywood's Walk of Fame. It's not the actor's only accolade. In 2003, he received the Bundesverdienstkreuz — Germany's highest civilian honor — for his support of German-British relations. In the same year, he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth. Back in 1980 already, he had received the Golden Globe Award for World Film Favorite. Roger Moore became a UNICEF ambassador in 1991 and used his popularity to raise funds for under-privileged children — an endeavor he was fully committed to. For his philanthropy, the actor was awarded a Golden Camera in 1992. UNICEF has called Moore a "true friend" of children all over the world. Author: Bettina Baumann (kbm) Born in London in 1920, Lewis Gilbert got his start as a child actor and later worked as an assistant on Alfred Hitchcock's "Jamaica Inn" (1939). During World War II, he directed documentaries as part of the Royal Air Force. His breakthrough came in 1966 with the Swinging London landmark "Alfie." The film launched the career of actor Michael Caine and was nominated for five Academy Awards, including best picture. The British Film Institute's filmography lists 33 features directed by Gilbert between 1947 and 2002, making him one of the most prolific British filmmakers. Gilbert was honored by the queen in 1997 with an Order of the British Empire. Sean Connery is one of Hollywood's few male stars who managed to take off his shirt and still leave a good impression at every age. He's seen here as secret agent James Bond, taking a bath in "Diamonds Are Forever." Here's a look back at Connery's oeuvre in honor of his 85th birthday on August 25. During his film career, Connery got around. His 007 films made him a sex symbol, and off camera he also exudes style and elegance, like here with actress Jeanne Moreau at the Cesar Awards in 1987. In "real" life, Sean Connery has been married to Moroccan-French painter Micheline Roquebrune for 40 years. Before Sean Connery rocketed to stardom as a British secret agent, he worked his way up the Hollywood ladder with bit parts. His first taste of success came in 1958, when played alongside Lana Turner in "Another Time, Another Place." His breakthrough came with the first James Bond film in 1962. In "Dr. No," the handsome Scottish actor enchanted co-star Ursula Andress on screen - and countless fans off screen. Early on in his career, Sean Connery aimed to establish himself as a multifaceted actor. In 1964, he worked with legendary director Alfred Hitchcock on the psycho-thriller "Marnie," playing a wealthy widower who tries to help a kleptomaniac. Meanwhile, Connery was expanding on his success with the Bond series. The third film, "Goldfinger" (1964), exceeded everyone's expectations and brought in $125 million at the box office. In the 1970s, Sean Connery increasingly tried to free himself from the James Bond label - and it worked. He did manage to make the most of his athletic figure in other films, though, too - including "Zardoz," a post-apocalyptical flick from 1974. In John Huston's film from 1975, Sean Connery played an eccentric Briton, who becomes a ruler in Kafiristan, a historical region in what is now Afghanistan. Off screen, Connery was critical of Great Britain and a proponent of Scottish independence. "The Name of the Rose" was based on a book by Italian author Umberto Eco. The 1986 film enjoyed particular success in Germany, where it also received funding. Sean Connery plays the Franciscan friar William of Baskerville and Christian Slater his apprentice in the film produced by Bernd Eichinger. ...Sean Connery! In 1987, he received Hollywood's highest honor for his supporting role as Jimmy Malone in the mafia drama "The Untouchables." He also won a Golden Globe and was nominated for a BAFTA. In later years, Sean Connery passed the heroic lead roles on to his younger colleagues and enjoyed smaller parts. Here in "Highlander" (1986), he appeared alongside Christopher Lambert in a small but important supporting role. The action-fantasy picture led to a sequel in 1991. In the 90s, things started to slow down for Sean Connery, though he presented a solid performance here in "The Avengers" in 1998 as Sir August de Wynter. Blockbusters, however, were few and far between. In 2003, Sean Connery said good-bye to the big screen. His last role was in "The League of Extraordinary Gentleman," an action film based on a comic book series. After that, he lent his voice to the animated feature "Sir Billi" and concentrated on his private life. Sean Connery hasn't made many headlines in recent years and rarely makes public appearances. He is enjoying a quiet retirement with his wife at their houses in Europe and the Caribbean. He turns 85 on August 25. Author: Jochen Kürten / kbm eg/cmb (dpa, AP)