A large welcome party met Germany's Olympians as they arrived at Frankfurt airport on Monday afternoon. "We're happy to be back home. It's nice that it's so cold here, that way adjusting won't be so difficult," the team joked on Twitter, referring to the particularly chilly temperatures sweeping Western Europe. About 85 of Germany's 154 athletes were on board the flight, including the men's ice hockey team that claimed a silver medal in the final against Russia on Sunday, and gold medal-winning figure-skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot. "It's special. We don't have parade like this every day, so we're enjoying it," ice hockey captain Marcel Goc told national broadcaster ARD. He said the athletes caught up on some much-needed sleep on the almost 11 hour flight. "I think we all missed the first half," he said. German athletes won a total of 31 medals —14 gold, 10 silver and seven bronze — at the Pyeongchang Winter Games, finishing second on the medal table behind Norway, which claimed 14 gold, 14 silver and 11 bronze.  The Games come to a close with a two-hour closing ceremony that saw spectators treated to a show of bright lights, dancing and pop music. The president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), Thomas Bach, used his speech to praise athletes from both South and North Korea, who competed as a united team at these Games, for demonstrating their belief in "a peaceful future." The puck crosses the line in the Olympic gold-medal match between Russia and Germany, the underdogs who surprised everyone by reaching the final. On this occasion, Germany's goalkeeper Danny Aus could do nothing to stop Nikita Gusev from scoring for the Russians. Alina Zagitova stunned her training partner, teammate and world No. 1 Evgenia Medvedeva to take gold in the ladies’ singles figure skating. A record score from the 15-year-old in the short program proved the difference as both scored 156.65 in the free skate. The result meant a first gold for the Olympic Athletes from Russia team and could herald the start of a skating rivalry for the ages. Things couldn't have gone any better for Germany in the men's nordic combined, as Johannes Rydzek took gole, Fabian Riessle silver, and Eric Frenzel captured the bronze medal to complete the sweep. Canada's Scott Moir and Tessa Virtue broke the world record in ice dancing total points with a dynamic, brilliant free dance to win the gold medal at the Pyeongchang Games on Tuesday. The pair also took gold in Vancouver in 2010 and silver in Sochi in 2014. Germany's Francesco Friedrich and brakeman Thorsten Margis thought they had won the gold medal in the two-man bobsleigh. Then Canadians Justin Kripps and Alexander Kopacz turned in an overall time that was exactly the same - meaning that the two teams shared this golden moment - and the medals that went with it. German pilot Nico Walther set a confident gold-medal pace in the opening heats of the men's two-man bobsleigh competition, with he and brakeman crossing the line with a combined time of 38.39 seconds. However, the Germans took the final curve a bit too quickly, causing their sleigh to overturn as they hurtled across the finish line with their helmets scraping along the wall of the ice track. German's Sinan Akdag was left face down on the ice after taking a check to the head by Tommy Kristiansen of Norway during the second period of their preliminary round game, which the Germans went on to win in a penalty shootout - their first win at the Olympics since Salt Lake City in 2002. Akdag was unable to continue in the match and Kristiansen was handed a game misconduct for the offense. Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. In one of the most remarkable Olympic finishes ever, Czech snowboarder Ester Ledecka won gold in the women's Super-G by 0.01 seconds. Having crossed the line, Ledecka looked shocked at her time. "How did that happen," the television cameras overheard her say. A three-month layoff with a knee injury had cast doubts over Japanese superstar Yuzuru Hanyu's appearance at the Olympics. But the "Ice Prince" became the first man to win back-to-back Olympic gold medals in men's singles figure skating since 1952. nm/aw (SID, dpa)