European leaders appear to agree on the need for a common EU security policy. At the Munich Security Conference, ministers and senior officials from across the continent offered their proposals and visions to secure the bloc in an ever more insecure world. But the variety of proposals raises questions about whether their leaders agree enough on the bloc's basic security priorities to be able to establish a common policy. German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel seemed to acknowledge this when he said the EU not only needed to develop joint foreign policy tools, but also needed  to "generate internal cohesion” on common interests. But how can cohesion be achieved when countries define security challenges so differently and prioritize their own national interests? Read more: Theresa May calls for UK-EU security agreement Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ss2X Borders or 'root causes'? Comments by Austrian Prime Minister Sebastian Kurz and French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe on irregular migration were emblematic of this basic problem. For Kurz, securing the EU's external borders and stopping irregular migration is a top priority. It represents an apparent existential threat to what Kurz sees as Austria's as well as Europe's cultural heritage. The EU, Kurz said, needs to focus on "that which defines us — a Europe characterized by its Judeo-Christian and Enlightenment heritage in which the foundational rights such as the rule of law, democracy and human rights are not up for negotiation." "Sometimes it feels like we took a wrong turn somewhere," said Kurz. "Without proper protection of external borders, internal borders are in danger." But for French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, the EU shouldn't develop a common security policy based on short-term goals targeting irregular migration. Instead, the EU must address the "root causes” of its security risks, including migration. The "threats to European security" go beyond questions of defense or law enforcement, Philippe said, noting that France was prioritizing major aid and investment projects in Africa to tackle growing migration from the continent to Europe. "Europe needs to get used to interdependencies," Philippe said. "We feel the tensions in the world." Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz thinks the EU needs to focus on securing its external border Read more: Eight facts about the Munich Security Conference A more holistic approach is needed European leaders of course need to look beyond border security — and their differences on how to best manage people trying to cross its external border — as they attempt to define a common European security policy. A comprehensive strategy would be holistic, looking at a host of common threats such as election-influencing operations, radicalization, or terrorism as well as irregular migration. Stress would also be placed on how risks are interconnected and how they have knock-on effects that threaten the bloc's very integrity. A truly holistic security policy would be centered on the concerns of EU citizens, thereby bolstering the bloc's popular legitimacy across the continent. A lack of legitimacy is in its own way a security risk as evidenced by Brexit — a transformative decision based on a popular vote. The EU in this vision would not only try to protect its power and its territory, but also protect the values its citizens hold dearest. But as this year's Munich Security Conference has indicated, we may be a long way off such a fully-fledged "security union." Read more: As China takes 'center stage,' Europe stands at a crossroads With 25 of the EU's current 28 member states joining the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO), there seems to be a great deal of consensus among member states but a few remain on the fence. The new defense union is expected to address immediate threats without having to rely on NATO for all of the EU's defense needs. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker had been campaining for PESCO for several years. He expects the new military pact to deliver a "European Security and Defence Union (which) will help protect our Union, which is exactly what EU citizens expect." EU Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Chief Federica Mogherini welcomed the establishment of PESCO as the dawn of a "new era." Mogherini further described the initiative as "an inclusive framework to facilitate the joint investments and projects that we so much need to strengthen the ability of the European Union to be a credible security provider for its citizens and globally." French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen are among the chief supporters of the PESCO defense union. Von der Leyen stressed that with the United States taking a critical stance on NATO, launching Europe's very own defense initiative was "important - especially after the election of the US President," referring to Presiden Donald Trump. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg (pictured left) welcomed the launch of PESCO in the face of those fears over US President Donald Trump's commitment to the transatlantic defense alliance. Stoltenberg said that PESCO will "strengthen the European pillar within NATO" adding that it will be "good for NATO" as well. The majority of EU states signed up to PESCO. Malta still mulling over it, Denmark has opted out for the time being, and the UK is expected to reject the proposal, as it is set to leave the EU by 2019. Prime Minister Theresa May is free to join PESCO at a later date however - even after Brexit - if the terms of that cooperation would benefit the entire EU. It is unclear to what extent there will be concrete military cooperation between EU states, as is the case with the EUFOR peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The signing of PESCO initially provides only the framework for expanded collaboration and more efficient spending of military funds. Author: Sertan Sanderson Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.