"Down with Pakistan," "Down with the Taliban," "Down with Daesh." These chants filled the air outside the Pakistani embassy in Kabul on Thursday when dozens of Afghans protested against Islamabad, blaming it for the latest wave of violent attacks rocking the already war-ravaged nation. The demonstration was held on a day when Afghan officials said they had handed over evidence connecting Pakistan-based insurgents with a recent spate of attacks that killed more than 100 people in Afghanistan. "I, as an Afghan citizen, came here today to express my hatred for our neighbor Pakistan," screamed one of the visibly upset female demonstrators who did not want to reveal her identity. "We are tired of this violence and loss of lives each and every day all across the country. We are tired of losing our soldiers on a daily basis. That's why we are against Pakistan, which houses the Taliban and the terrorists," said the woman. The number of demonstrators was less than expected. Those who participated said many people had stayed at home due to fear of new attacks. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rqv4 Roshan Ghaznawi, another protester and activist, referred to the 1990s when Afghanistan underwent a civil war. During this period, she said, many actors involved in the conflict were bankrolled by Islamabad and had their bases in Pakistan. "The whole world knows the true intentions of Pakistan," Ghaznawi told DW. "They want to recreate the times of civil war when they managed to incite the Afghans against each other. But they should know that these times are over. We do not let our government isolate us and we stand together for peace," she said. The Islamabad link? The demonstration was triggered by a string of brutal incidents over the past several weeks, killing and injuring hundreds of innocent Afghans. The attacks and bombings have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The Afghan government blames Pakistan for these attacks. Afghan officials said Thursday that they had handed "undeniable" evidence to authorities in Islamabad showing the latest attacks were planned on Pakistani soil. Read more: Can Afghanistan join China-Pakistan Economic Corridor? Taliban attacks cast doubts on US' Afghan strategy Mohammad Masoom Stanekzai, the head of Afghanistan's spy agency, told reporters Thursday it was clear that the attacks were "planned from across the border." "We asked Pakistan to hand over the culprits of the attacks in Afghanistan and we shared undeniable evidence that the attacks were planned there," Stanekzai said, a day after meeting with top Pakistani officials in Islamabad. Afghan Interior Minister Wais Barmak said the Afghans submitted a list of questions during Wednesday's "constructive" one-hour meeting, asking among other things what action Pakistan will take against Taliban leaders and training centers on their soil. The Pakistani embassy in Kabul said the information provided by Stanekzai was "being examined for its authenticity." Pakistani Foreign Minister Khawaja Asif described the talks with the Afghan delegation as "productive," a ministry statement said. A massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German Embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack, but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past. The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses. In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike. US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman. But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Strong anti-Pakistan sentiment The Afghan interior minister and the intelligence chief did not seem very convincing, said Yunus Fakoor, an Afghanistan expert. The analyst is of the view that their talks with Pakistani officials will not yield any positive results. It is not the first time that Afghanistan has handed over such information and demanded the authorities across the border to take action. "Such demands haven't brought any solution in the past and will not bring any in the future," said Fakoor. "The Afghan government is under strong pressure to act. The population is angry and expects a reaction. That's why the government sent a delegation to Pakistan." The expert described it as "a useless endeavor," and stressed that he sees no rosy future for the Afghan-Pakistan relationship. "Since the fall of the Taliban in 2001, relations between Pakistan and Afghanistan have never been as bad as they are today," he noted. Meanwhile, most Afghans are simmering with anger, not only at the impotence of their government to ensure security, but also at what they see as the lack of cooperation from Pakistan to resolve the problem. "For years, Kabul has tried to make peace with Islamabad and the Taliban," said Ahmad Shah Stanekzai, an activist in Kabul. "But these efforts have come to nothing. Now it's time to cut off all relations with Pakistan. Every day we see how men, women and children are killed in our mosques, schools and on the streets. It is enough!" Additional reporting by Masood Saifullah and Hussain Sirat, DW correspondent in Kabul. On September 12, 2017, a flight left Germany's Düsseldorf airport for Afghanistan, carrying 15 rejected asylum seekers in what is the first group deportation to the country since a deadly car bomb blast near the German embassy in Kabul in late May. The opposition Greens and Left party slammed the resumption of deportations to Afghanistan as "cynical." In March 2017, high school students in Cottbus made headlines with a campaign to save three Afghan classmates from deportation. They demonstrated, collected signatures for a petition and raised money for an attorney to contest the teens' asylum rejections - safe in the knowledge that their friends, among them Wali (above), can not be deported as long as proceedings continue. "Headed toward deadly peril," this sign reads at a demonstration in Munich airport in February. Protesters often show up at German airports where the deportations take place. Several collective deportations left Germany in December 2016, and between January and May 2017. Protesters believe that Afghanistan is too dangerous for refugees to return. Badam Haidari, in his mid-30s, spent seven years in Germany before he was deported to Afghanistan in January 2017. He had previously worked for USAID in Afghanistan and fled the Taliban, whom he still fears years later – hoping that he will be able to return to Germany after all. In January of the same year, officials deported Afghan Hindu Samir Narang from Hamburg, where he had lived with his family for four years. Afghanistan, the young man told German public radio, "is not safe." Minorities from Afghanistan who return because asylum is denied face religious persecution in the Muslim country. Deportation to Afghanistan is "life-threatening" to Samir, says change.org. Rejected asylum seekers deported from Germany to Kabul, with 20 euros in their pockets from the German authorities to tide them over at the start, can turn to the International Organization for Migration (IOM) for assistance. Funded by the German Foreign Office, members of the IPSO international psychosocial organization counsel the returnees. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach 