Swiss Olympic freestyle skier Fabian Bosch and teammate Elias Ambühl became the first two athletes to contract the norovirus at the Pyeongchang Winter Games, a Swiss team spokesperson revealed on Friday. Read more: Winter Olympics: Day 7 Live The two skiers were immediately isolated from other athletes in the Olympic village, according to the Swiss team, and taken into single rooms. Both had already gotten over the most severe symptoms by the time of the Swiss team's announcement. "Everyone else is safe. We did everything we could. We took them away from the rest of the team and now they have to recover," the spokesperson said. "We expect these to remain individual incidents and that the two athletes will recover fully." Officials from the Swiss team, as well as the International Olympic Committee (IOC), said they hoped the two skiers would be able to compete again before the freestyle competition ends on February 23. Boesch had become a viral sensation during the Games after he posted a video of himself hanging onto the outside rail of an ascending escalator. Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. Despite starting third, Laura Dahlmeier, 24, held off competitors in the Women's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint to win her first Olympic gold medal. "I have dreamed of this day for a long time. I still cannot believe it," Dahlmeier said afterwards. Winter Games struck by norovirus outbreak The highly contagious norovirus has quickly spread around the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, with some 200 cases recorded in just the first week, mostly among security staff and personnel. Read more: Winter Olympics: How popular are these Games? Most of those affected with the virus, whose main symptoms include vomiting and diarrhea, have had to be placed in quarantine. Later on Friday, US skier Mikaela Shiffrin told US broadcaster NBC that she was "kind of puking" before her first run in the Olympic slalom.  The 22-year-old claimed the fourth-fastest time in Friday's opening run, having already taken gold in the giant slalom on Thursday. All Olympic teams have been ordered to remind their athletes to frequently wash their hands and use sanitizer. dm/rt (AP, Reuters, SID) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.