The US House of Representatives voted 240-186 in favor of a two-year budget deal, ending an government shutdown that started in the early hours of Friday morning and concluded within six hours. The government shut down for the second time in 
2018 , after Republican Senator Rand Paul held up voting on the spending bill and forced Congress to miss its midnight deadline on a new federal funding structure. Paul, a fiscal conservative from the state of Kentucky, said he could not allow a quick vote to take place because the proposed measure — which would fund the government for another six weeks — would also expand the US deficit. "I ran for office because I was very critical of President Obama's trillion-dollar deficits," he said. "Now we have Republicans hand in hand with Democrats offering us trillion-dollar deficits." "I can't... in good faith, just look the other way because my party is now complicit in the deficits. Really, who is to blame? Both parties." As midnight approaches on September 30 of each year, it's go time for Congress: approve a budget or shut down government operations. Originally, Article I, Section 9 of the constitution required lawmakers to approve the budget. Honing it further in 1870, the Anti-Deficiency Act targeted agencies that spent money without asking. But meeting deadlines was a chronic problem. That is, until the 1980s. At the behest of President Jimmy Carter, the US attorney general revisited the Antideficiency Act in 1980 to answer the question: "Without a budget, are government employees required to work?" According to Benjamin Civiletti's legal opinion, no money meant no work. Carter's presidency saw only small shutdowns, but the new interpretation of the law turned shutdowns into a negotiating tactic. The first real shutdown – over 240,000 workers furloughed, more than $80 million (€65 million) down the drain – occurred in November 1981. Still in his early days, President Reagan refused to sign a budget without billions in tax cuts. The Republican-controlled Senate and the Democrat-controlled House found a solution by the next day. This happened seven more times by his last year in 1989. Budget impasses were largely drama-free until 1995, when President Clinton faced off against Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and House Speaker New Gingrich (pictured left). The Republican-led Congress wanted a balanced budget within seven years, higher Medicare premiums and rollbacks on environment regulations. It took 27 days in total to strike a deal. The cost: at least $1 billion. Many departments such as the military, national security and any deemed essential to the protection of life, continue working during shutdowns. But agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service, the Federal Food and Drug Administration and the Center for Disease Prevention must cease operations. This results in delays on tax decisions, food inspection and disease research, among other problems. The next major shutdown came in 2013 under President Obama. His Affordable Health Care Act – or Obamacare – faced stark opposition from conservative House Republicans. Led by Senator Ted Cruz, the group pushed for drastic curbs on the healthcare act in exchange for raising the debt ceiling. The 18-day shutdown resulted in the furlough of some 850,000 workers. The cost: $24 billion. The prohibitive cost of shutting down some government operations has not tamed the trend. Washington loses millions not just in revenue, but also in back pay, even though furloughed employees stay at home. So, time lost, work lost – and money lost. According to Standard and Poor's, the current rate for a shutdown will cost the US roughly $6 billion per week in 2018. But the biggest loser is not the economy, or the party that makes the most concessions. Arguably, it is the government itself. According to a Gallup poll in the aftermath of the 2013 shutdown, public dissatisfaction with the government in general rose to 33 percent. The previous all-time high regarding political dysfunction was 26 percent during the Watergate scandal. Author: Kathleen Schuster Senate officials subsequently held a vote at 1 a.m. local time (0600 UTC) to pass the budget the bill by 71 votes to 28, passing it on to the House of Representatives to vote on the bill in the early hours. Paul's move to delay the vote drew the ire of Democrats and fellow Republicans, who accused the senator of wasting time to draw attention to himself. Democratic Representative Nita Lowey accused GOP lawmakers in the House and Senate of turning the budget process into "an embarrassing spectacle, running from one crisis directly into the next." After passing through the House, the spending bill was sent to US President Donald Trump, who tweeted that he had signed it into law, adding that "we love and need our military." Deficit discontent Democratic and Republican Senate leaders cobbled together the budget deal on Wednesday. It would raise military and domestic spending by nearly $300 billion (€250 billion) over two years. The measure did not include any spending cuts or new tax revenues. The absence of any offsetting measures, combined with far-reaching tax cuts passed at the end of 2017, would force the US to finance the increased spending through debt. To permit the spending, the deal would also raise the limit on how much debt the government can acquire until March 2019. Total US debt currently stands at more than $20 trillion. The sweeping tax overhaul bill that Trump and Republicans approved in December is also estimated to add another $1.5 trillion to the debt over 10 years. House Republicans, Democrats unhappy The Senate had been expected to pass the budget deal on Thursday, allowing first the House of Representatives and then President Trump to follow suit. But passage in the House was not assured amid opposition from some Republican and Democratic lawmakers. Members of the "Freedom Caucus" — a group of fiscally conservative House Republicans — announced they would oppose the measure, citing the projected increase in the government deficit. Some Democrats, including minority leader Nancy Pelosi, also said they opposed the measure because it did not include a deal that would protect some 700,000 "Dreamers" — immigrants brought to the US illegally as children — from deportation. Trump has vowed to end the so-called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, by March 5. Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump's shameful move to end DACA Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sJGd Shutdown drama The government was forced to shut down for three days in mid-January after the Senate failed to pass a stopgap budget amid Democratic demands for a deal to protect "Dreamers." Democrats abandoned their opposition after three days, allowing the Senate and House to pass a temporary spending bill on January 23. dm, amp/msh (AP, AFP, Reuters)