02:22 Garcia Knight lays down marker After Run 1, New Zealand's Carlos Garcia Knight has set the early pace in the slopestyle final, registering a score of 78.60. Norway's Marcus Kleveland sits in second, just ahead of Canada's Mark McMorris. We've seen some BIG tricks, including a 1440 and a 1620 - four and a half rotations!! - but none of the riders have put down a flawless run so far. Expect big things from the next two runs now the benchmark has been set. 02:00 First medal up for grabs The Snowboard Men's Slopestyle - the first medal event of the day - is about the get underway at the Phoenix Snow Park. There are 12 men involved, with Canada and Norway boasting four finalists apiece. Each rider will take to the slope three times. The best score from the three runs counts and the man with the highest score will be the Olympic champion. After qualifying for the finals, Norwegian snowboarder Marcus Kleveland appeared pretty laid back: "I'm not going to work on anything. I'm just going to go home, eat some pizza and relax for tomorrow!" 01:50 Half-time in the curling If you're new to curling, basically, the idea is to get your stones as close to the centre of the target as possible. Six nations are battling it out to join Canada and Olympic Athlete of Russia in the semi-finals. There are eight ends in a mixed double match. The team with the most points at the conclusion, wins. Here are the scores at the halfway stage. 01:40 Men's downhill event rescheduled An update on the news we brought you earlier regarding the Men's Downhill event. Having been postponed due to high winds on Sunday, the event will now take place on Thursday 03:00 CET. As a result the Super-G event will be moved to Friday at the same time. 01:15 Curling kicks-off the action The first event of the day is Round Robin Session 7 in the Mixed Doubles Curling. Canada currently lead the way with five wins from six, but Norway, Switzerland and the Olympic Athlete from Russia are hot on their heels with four, while Finland will be looking for their first win of the competition. Here are the match-ups: 00:59 BREAKING: Men's Downhill postponed The men's Olympic downhill event has been postponed. The Jeongseon Alpine Centre was closed because of high winds a few hours before the scheduled start, while gusting winds of up to 39 knots (72 kilometres per hour) were forecast for Sunday. It is yet to be confirmed when the first race of the 11-event Alpine program will take place. Read more: Recap all the action from Day 1 of the Winter Olympics 00:45 Good morning! The Winter Olympics got underway in fine fashion on Saturday and, with Germany sitting atop the medals table after taking two golds, Day 2 in Pyeongchang offers the chance for yet more drama, glory and medal-winning exploits. If you, like me, are up at the crack of dawn to catch the action from South Korea then buckle up! We've got seven medal events to get our teeth stuck into starting with the Men's Slopestyle Snowboard. Here's an overview (all times CET): The opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyongchang was held at the Olympic Stadium, starting with fireworks on a frigid evening in South Korea. While the weather was often too warm in the previous two Games in Vancouver and Sochi, this should not be a problem this time around. As is the case with all Olympic hosts, South Korea took the opportunity presented by the opening ceremony to present something of its culture and traditions to the world. As is the tradition at both the Winter and Summer Olympic Games, Greece, the ancient home of the Olympics, are the first contingent to enter the stadium for the opening ceremony. Alpine skier Sophia Ralli led what is a realtively small Greek continent into the stadium in Pyeongchang. The dignitaries watched the opening ceremony from their own VIP stand. Bottom left is German International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach, to his right, South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany is represented by President Frank-Walter Steinmeier (top right). German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier was witness to a little bit of history as Kim Yo Jong, sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shook the hand of South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany were led into the Olympic stadium by nordic-combined gold medalist from Sochi four years ago, Eric Frenzel. Germany's flagbearer was chosen in part by a popular vote on the internet, as he beat four other nominees. Ghana has sent an athlete to the Winter Olympic Games for just the second time. Akwasi Frimpong, who will be competing in the Skeleton, carried the flag into the Olympic Stadium. Downhill skier Kwame Nkrumah-Acheampong had previously represented Ghana at the 2010 Vancouver Games. There are also several other Africans competing at the Games, including from South Africa, Nigeria and Eritrea. The International Olympic Committee has banned Russia from these Winter Games over its alleged state-sponsored doping program. However, 169 carefully screened athletes have been invited to compete under a neutral flag. The "Olympic Athletes from Russia" followed the Olympic flag into the stadium. Tongan cross-country skier Pita Taufatofua stole the show when he entered the stadium bare-chested, despite sub-zero temperatures. The 34-year-old had caused a stir at the 2016 Rio Games when he oiled himself up and went topless as Tonga's flag-bearer. Taufatofua, who competed in taekwondo in Rio, had originally planned to keep his shirt on in the freezing cold — but obviously changed his mind... In a gesture of peace, the host South Koreans entered the stadium together with their neighbors from North Korea. The athletes from the bitter rivals marched into the venue under a unified Korean flag. IOC President Thomas Bach used his short address to thank the Koreans for entering as a united team. He also called on the around 3,000 athletes to "inspire us all to live together in peace and harmony despite all the differences we have." Then he gave way to South Korean President Moon, who declared the Winter Games open. There was a time when an athlete could simply walk up to the cauldron with a torch and light the Olympic Flame. Now, though, no self-respecting host would allow the Flame to be lit in such a mundane manner. South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna, who won gold in Vancouver and silver in Sochi, lit the fuse, setting off a tower of fire that shot up to the Olympic cauldron — lighting the Olympic Flame. Author: Chuck Penfold