German police in the eastern city of Cottbus on Thursday arrested six members of the far-right community for handing out bottles filled with tear gas and controversial flyers bearing the logo of the extreme-right National Democratic Party (NPD). Cottbus has been in the spotlight in recent months due to growing anti-migrant sentiment, resulting in protests calling for refugees to leave the city. Read more: Cottbus grapples with violence between locals and refugees What we know Breaking 'public assembly' law Police in Cottbus said "an investigation has been launched against the men, aged 17 to 32 years, on suspicion of breaching the law on public assembly and their flyers and CS-gas sprays have been confiscated," referring to tear gas by its technical name. In Germany, organized public assembly, such as protests or demonstrations, must receive advanced permission from local authorities. Cottbus police said the men should have registered their action beforehand. Read more: A guide to Germany's far-right groups What's happening in Cottbus now: Last month, five Syrian teenagers were arrested and accused of involvement in two knife attacks. Since then, right-wing groups have started to organize anti-migrant protests. What happens next: Protests against and in support of refugees are expected to go forward in the city this weekend under heightened police security. Reichsbürger translates to "citizens of the Reich." What unites this loose movement is rejection of the modern Federal Republic of Germany. They believe the 1937 or 1871 borders of the German Empire still exist and today's country is an administrative construct still occupied by the Allied powers. Many subscribe to far-right or anti-Semitic ideologies. Their conspiracy theories have been debunked. The Reichsbürger scene is a disparate, leaderless movement totalling about 15,000 supporters, according to German intelligence officials. Of those, about 900 have been identified as far-right extremists and 1,000 have a license to own firearms. Authorities are concerned about some members' potential to become violent and have conducted several raids on Reichsbürger suspects to sieze weapons. Adrian Ursache, a 42-year-old former winner of the Mister Germany beauty pageant, is also a Reichsbürger member. He is currently facing trial for attempted murder after an August 2016 gun battle with police as they tried to evict him from his home. Typically, Reichsbürger refuse to recognize any state apparatus, printing their own passports and driving licenses. The case of Wolfgang P., who in October 2017 was sentenced to life in prison for murdering a police officer, is seen as a turning point for how German authorities deal with the extremist group. P., an alleged Reichsbürger member, shot at officers who were raiding his home to confiscate weapons. German authorities have been accused of long underestimating the threat posed by the Reichsbürger. Since the murder of the police officer in Bavaria, law enforcement has been cracking down on them more vigorously. In the past year there have been several raids on Reichsbürger targets. Some German police and military forces have also probed whether they may have Reichsbürger among their own ranks. Author: Samantha Early ls/sms (Reuters, dpa, AFP)