UK Foreign Secretary and Brexit champion Boris Johnson on Wednesday said he wanted to "reach out to those who still have Brexit anxieties" and show them that "these fears can be allayed." Johnson made the comments during the first of a series of high-profile speeches on Britain's departure from the EU at UK think tank the Policy Exchange. Read more: How a hard Brexit could hurt Germany: Reckoning with the worst that may befall On those who voted to Remain: "I say to my remaining Remainer friends: More people voted for Brexit than have ever voted for anything in this country and if we had another vote it would be another year of wrangling and turmoil — let's not go there." On appealing to Remain voters: "We must reach out to those who still have anxieties — I want to show that these fears can be allayed, that Brexit can be grounds for much more hope than fear ... It's not good enough for us to say to Remainers, 'You lost, get over it,' because the vast majority were motivated by entirely noble sentiments." On leaving the EU: "Brexit is about re-engaging this country with its global identity — I refuse to accept the accusation that it is some kind of great spasm of bad manners." On the EU: "The trouble with the EU is for all its idealism and for all the good intentions of those who run its institutions, there is no demos — we in the UK have never felt part of a European demos ... Our commitment to the defense of Europe is unconditional and immovable although we represent 13 percent of the EU population, we represent 20 percent defense spending." On migration: "We need talented people to come and make their lives in this country. We must remain a magnet for ambition and drive but need to ask ourselves hard questions about the impact of 20 years of immigration of low skilled workers." On trade: "In a global marketplace, it seems extraordinary that the UK should remain lashed to a tiny trade bloc without freedom to change the rules. When it comes to EU standards for washing machines or hairdryers, it may well make sense for us to remain in alignment ... but I don't think we should necessarily commit to that forever." EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April 2017 that divided the divorce talks into two phases. Phase I, in which both sides aimed to settle the basic terms of Britain's departure, started in July and ended with an agreement on "sufficient progress" in December. Officials are now holding Phase II negotiations on the post-Brexit relationship between Britain and the EU. London agreed to a formula for calculating what it owes in its "divorce bill" to the EU in early December after months of haggling by British officials. The current EU budget expires in 2022 and EU officials have said the divorce bill will cover financial obligations Britain had committed to before triggering article 50. The final bill will reportedly total around £50 billion (€67 billion). Both sides agreed in early December that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their residency rights after Brexit. British courts will have immediate jurisdiction over EU citizens living in Britain. But the EU's highest court, the ECJ, can hear cases until 2027 if British judges refer unclear cases to them. Britain and the EU also agreed in December that no border checks between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland would return post-Brexit. How feasible the commitment will be is unclear, as Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid customs checks at the Irish border. Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019. Both sides still have to hash out the details of the transition period in Phase II, including the exact end-date, whether new EU laws passed during the period will apply to Britain, and whether Britain can negotiate its own free trade deals. British officials hope to agree on the terms of the transition by March 2018. May has repeatedly said Britain will leave the European Single Market and the EU Customs Union. Leaving both could disrupt British-EU trade, but allow Britain to negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration — key demands by pro-Brexit politicians. London has said it wants to negotiate a new EU-UK trade deal during Phase II to minimize trade disruption before March 2019. Britain has also vowed to restrict EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that Single Market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. Author: Alexander Pearson Juncker against a 'European super-state' European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on Wednesday said he did not want to build a "European super-state." He made the comment in response to Brexit supporters who had criticized him over what they see as his federalist views. "I am strictly against a European super-state," Juncker told a news conference as Johnson delivered his speech, adding that the notion was "total nonsense." Speech was 'hypocritical' Prior to Johnson's speech, Chuka Umunna, a lawmaker from the opposition Labour party, described the speech, excerpts of which the Foreign Office released on Tuesday, as "hypocrisy of the highest order." In a statement issued by the pro-EU campaign group Open Britain, Umunna said, "Boris Johnson is totally unqualified to preach about the perils of fear and betrayal when he engaged in disgraceful scaremongering." The UK's Guardian newspaper quoted Labour peer Andrew Adonis as saying that people were trying to stop Brexit because they had been lied to by the likes of Johnson. Read more: The NHS and Brexit: Don't get sick in the UK "Johnson lied to the British people about Brexit and its benefits two years ago, including £350m a week for the NHS on the side of his bus,” Adonis said, referring to the Brexit campaign bus emblazoned with a slogan promising that EU funds would instead go towards the health service, a promise that was taken back almost immediately after the vote. "The greatest national success now would be to stop Brexit, eject Johnson from office, and install a government determined to promote trade, prosperity and security with our European partners – and not undermine them, as he is doing.” law/sms (AFP, Reuters)