Archaeologists in Israel have discovered a Roman-era mosaic in the historic coastal city of Caesarea, the country's antiquities body said on Thursday. The mosaic, dating back to the 2nd or 3rd century AD, was discovered during the excavation of a building from the Byzantine period — some 300 years younger than the mosaic it was hiding. "The surprise was actually that we found two beautiful monuments from the glorious days of Caesarea," Peter Gendelman, co-director of excavation for the Israel Antiquities Authority, said referring to the building and mosaic. The excavated portion of the mosaic, which measures about 3.5 meters by 8 meters (11 feet by 26 feet) in size, depicts three prosperous-looking males wearing togas, one facing the viewer and the other two in profile. It also bears geometric patterns and an inscription in Greek, which is damaged. The artifacts found with mummies date back the era that started with Alexander the Great's conquest of Egypt. They were the first human mummies discovered in the area, a site rich in artifacts which lies near the Nile Valley city of Minya. The eight-meter (9-yard) deep necropolis included six sarcophagi, two clay coffins, two papyri written in demotic script and several vessels. The mummies were elaborately preserved and were likely officials and priests. At the edge of the necropolis, legs and feet of other mummies could be seen, pointing to a much bigger find. Excavation is still at the preliminary stage. Egypt's economically-vital tourism industry has largely collapsed since the 2011 uprising against longtime dictator Hosny Mubarak. The Ministry of Antiquities said the latest finds were "as if our ancestors are sending a message for tourism to come back strongly." The discovery comes after a series of important finds in Egypt. Eight mummies were uncovered inside a 3,500-year-old tomb in the southern city of Luxor in April. A month earlier, a massive colossus likely depicting the 26th dynasty King Psamtik I was unearthed in Cairo. Salah al-Kholi, a Cairo University professor of Egyptology who headed the expedition, said his team found burial shafts and that excavation work "revealed that these shafts led to a number of corridors inside a cachette of mummies." Kholi said the discovery was "the first human necropolis found in central Egypt with so many mummies." There could be as many as 32 mummies in the chamber, including mummies of women, children and infants. Author: Alistair Walsh (dpa, AFP, AP, Reuters) 'High-quality' discovery It's not yet clear if the mosaic was part of a private mansion or a public building. If the mosaic came from a mansion, the figures could have been the owners, or if it was a public building, they may have been the mosaic's donors or members of the city council, Gendelman said. Read more: How Jews, Christians 
and  Muslims exchanged knowledge for a millennium The mosaic was of a high artistic standard, with about 12,000 stones per square meter, the antiquities authority said. While such "high-quality" mosaics have been found in Cyprus and northern Syria in the past, it's a first in Israel. Caesarea, located 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of capital Tel Aviv, was a Roman metropolis built in honor of Emperor Augustus Caesar by King Herod, who ruled what was then Judea from 37 BC until his death in 4 BC. ap/sms (Reuters, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2i5qN