Germany's top diplomat Sigmar Gabriel joined a chorus of condemnation on Sunday after the US proposed upgrading and expanding its nuclear arsenal. Gabriel said it was now up to Europe to take the lead in pushing for worldwide nuclear disarmament. "As in the times of the Cold War, we in Europe are especially endangered" by "a renewed nuclear arms race", he said. "That is why precisely we in Europe must begin new initiatives for arms control and disarmament." Read more: Germany, Netherlands, Belgium not ready for international nuclear accident The German foreign minister's comments came in response to the Pentagon's "Nuclear Posture Review" that on Friday outlined the Trump administration's new military and nuclear strategy. The document called for a "tailored and flexible" approach to deterrence and an increase to the US' nuclear capabilities. The Pentagon also classified Russia and China as the biggest threats facing the US. Gabriel admitted that Russia's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine had led to a "dramatic loss of trust towards Russia" in both Europe and the US. "Signs that Russia is re-arming, not only conventionally but with nuclear weapons, are obvious," he added. But instead of developing new weapons, Germany's top diplomat said Berlin would press "with its allies and partners" for further global disarmament and for "existing arms control treaties to be upheld unconditionally." US nuclear weapons have for decades been a divisive issue in German politics. While Berlin does not have its own nuclear program, Washington has continued to keep around 20 nuclear warheads, as well as a major troop presence in Germany in the years since the end of the Cold War. German Social Democrat leader Martin Schulz, a failed challenger to Chancellor Angela Merkel in last September's federal elections, called during the campaign for all remaining American bombs to be removed from Germany. China, Iran deride US Pentagon strategy Gabriel's response to the US' nuclear proposal came on the heels of a series of rebukes from several countries, including those singled out in the Pentagon's report. China's Defense Ministry said it was "firmly opposed" to the Trump administration's proposed nuclear strategy, dismissing it as being based on pure speculation over Beijing's defense and military priorities. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rXjG "We hope that the US will set aside its Cold War mentality, take responsibility for nuclear disarmament and fairly judge China's national defense and military developments," Defense Ministry spokesman Ren Guoqiang said. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani also decried the Pentagon's proposed policies on Sunday and accused Trump of hypocrisy in opposing Iran's missile program. "How can someone talk about world peace while at the same time also talk about new nuclear weapons and threaten your main enemies?" he said. Read more: Iran: Nuclear deal relies on 'full compliance' from US Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif even warned late on Saturday that Washington's nuclear policy would bring humanity "closer to annihilation." Zarif also said that the strategy violated the international Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) — a 1970 pact signed by almost all countries in the world, including the US, that calls on nations to halt the nuclear arms race and undertake measures towards nuclear disarmament. "The US Nuclear Posture Review reflects greater reliance on nukes in violation of the #NPT, bringing humankind closer to annihilation," Zarif said on Twitter. On Saturday, Russia slammed the US proposal, calling it "bellicose" and "anti-Russian," before vowing it would respond in order to ensure its own security. dm/ng (dpa, Reuters, AFP) Over 100 AI experts have written to the UN asking them to ban lethal autonomous weapons — those that use AI to act independently without any human input. No "killer robots" currently exist, but advances in artificial intelligence have made them a real possibility. The experts said these weapons could be "the third revolution in warfare," after gunpowder and nuclear arms. The "first revolution in warfare" was invented by the Chinese, who started using the black substance between the 10th and 12th centuries to propel projectiles in simple guns. It gradually spread to the Middle East and Europe in the following two centuries. Once perfected, firearms using gunpowder proved to be far more lethal than the traditional bow and arrow. The invention of gunpowder also introduced artillery pieces to the battlefield. Armies started using basic cannons in the 16th century to fire heavy metal balls at opposing infantrymen and breach defensive walls around cities and fortresses. Far more destructive field guns were invented in the 19th century and went on to wreak havoc in the battlefields of World War I. Guns that fire multiple rounds in rapid succession were invented in the late 19th century and immediately transformed the battlefield. Machine guns, as they came to be known, allowed soldiers to mow down the enemy from a protected position. The weapon's grisly effectiveness became all too clear in WWI as both sides used machine guns to wipe out soldiers charging across no man's land. Military thinkers did not ignore the invention of the first airplane in 1903. Six years later, the US military bought the first unarmed military aircraft, the 1909 Wright Military Flyer. Inventors experimented with more advanced fighter and bomber aircraft in the following years. Both became standard features in many of the national air forces established by the end of WWI. Armies had traditionally used soldiers and horses to fight and transport military equipment. But around WWI, they started using more machines such as tanks and armored vehicles. Faster and more destructive armies were the result. Nazi Germany put this new form of "mechanized warfare" to destructive effect in WWII using an attack strategy known as "Blitzkrieg" ("lightning war"). Although artillery was effective, it had a relatively limited range. The missile's invention in WWII suddenly allowed an army to strike a target hundreds of kilometers away. The first missile — the German V-2 — was relatively primitive, but it laid the foundation for the development of guided cruise missiles and intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) capable of carrying nuclear warheads. Jet aircraft first saw action alongside traditional propeller airplanes at the end of WWII. Jet engines dramatically increased an aircraft's speed, allowing it to reach a target quicker and making it far harder for an adversary to shoot it down. After WWII, military reconnaissance planes were developed that could fly higher than 25 kilometers (15.5 miles) and faster than the speed of sound. The "second revolution in warfare" announced its horrific arrival on August 6, 1945 when the US dropped the first nuclear bomb — "Little Boy" — on the city of Hiroshima in Japan, killing between 60,000 and 80,000 people instantly. In the Cold War that followed, the US and Soviet Union developed thousands of even more destructive warheads and raised the specter of a devastating nuclear war. Recent decades have witnessed the ever more prevalent use of computers to conduct war. The devices made military communication quicker and easier and radically improved the precision and efficiency of many weapons. Armed forces have recently focused on developing cyber warfare capabilities to defend national infrastructure and attack foreign adversaries in cyberspace. Author: Alexander Pearson