Deniz Yücel was working as a correspondent in Turkey for the German daily newspaper Die Welt when he was taken into custody by police in Istanbul on February 14, 2017. An arrest warrant was issued a short time later. By March, the 43-year-old, who has German and Turkish passports, was transferred to Istanbul's maximum-security Silivri prison and courts complex. Many press and rights advocates consider him a hostage of Turkey's government. Timeline: Deniz Yücel has spent a year in Erdogan's prisons German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel again called for Yücel's release saying the journalist's imprisonment "continued to be one of the big hurdles in bilateral relations between Germany and Turkey." "Just as before we are directing talks towards a fast and just procedure," he added. "In our eyes, the release of Deniz Yücel can be the only goal." Yücel and collaborators are releasing a new anthology "Wir sind ja nicht zum Spass hier" ("We Are Not Here for Fun") to mark the first anniversary of his detention. In it, he says that his own imprisonment threw a fresh light on the stories he was working on. "I had spoken to torture victims in the past, I had even spoken with Holocaust survivors," Yücel writes. "But now I understand how such accounts of state violence take on a wholly new dimension when you are a victim of precisely that state." The book is accompanied by numerous expressions of solidarity from prominent supporters, including artists, actors and journalists. In his piece, written from prison, Yücel describes how he met Cengiz, a fighter from the banned Kurdish PKK (Kurdistan Workers' Party) who was jailed in 1996. With "eyes that spoke of the unspeakable," Cengiz described in detail how he had been sadistically tortured by a special unit of the Turkish army. Yücel also writes about his argument with Cengiz, who, "in the cold jargon of a party soldier," denied that the PKK had any guilt in the escalation of violence and deaths of civilians. "Deniz Yücel is someone who never minced his words in his reporting," Kristian Brakel, the head of the Heinrich Böll Foundation in Istanbul, told DW. "He served it up to both the left and right of the political spectrum — and wrote very sharp analyses." Brakel believes that Yücel is being punished for his harsh criticism of Turkey's government. "It is difficult to say whether there was originally an intention to get Germany to hand something over, but there have definitely been attempts to use him for blackmailing purposes." He has been charged with "incitement of the people" and "terrorist propaganda." Eight articles that he wrote for Die Welt were mentioned. German Chancellor Angela Merkel took a stance early on. "Journalists must be able to do their job," she said two weeks after his arrest. "That is why we are thinking of Deniz Yücel, who is in pretrial detention in Turkey and whose release we are calling for: because we believe that he has done nothing other than to carry out his independent journalistic work. This must be followed through." Merkel added that "the federal government will do everything in its power to ensure that this happens." Known for reporting that pulls no punches, Yücel has many prominent supporters Independent justice? After July 2016's failed coup attempt in Turkey, the government began to imprison people in large numbers. The roundup included at least 28 German citizens — not counting Yücel. According to Germany's Foreign Ministry, all but six were released, including the human rights activist Peter Steudtner and the journalist and translator Mesale Tolu. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan personally intervened in Yücel's case. "He is truly a spy and a terrorist," the president said. "There's no way he's a journalist. And, for a whole month, the German Embassy hid him in their summer residence in Istanbul." Brakel said such statements were based on paranoia nursed by some government officials: "the idea that Europeans and Americans want to destroy Turkey." Erdogan said he would not permit Yücel to leave for Germany — "never, under no circumstances, as long as I am in office." However, Brakel believes that the president might release Yücel in exchange for the return of Turkish military personnel whom the government accuses of involvement in the coup, but who have been granted asylum in Germany. Various demonstrations to protest Yücel's imprisonment taken place in Berlin Warming relations The governments of Germany and Turkey are demonstratively committed to restoring normalcy to the two countries' relations . Gabriel recently visited his Turkish counterpart, Mevlut Cavusoglu, and later received him at his own home in Goslar, Lower Saxony, attracting media attention by serving Turkish tea. His guest spoke on several occasions of his "friend Sigmar" — an ally whom he hopes will help expand the EU's customs union to include Turkey, as well as provide the country with further assistance in arms and military aid. Gabriel made it clear that further arms supplies depend on solving problems, including the case of Deniz Yücel. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r3xJ The journalist has expressed concern that the governments could attempt to use him as a bargaining chip. In a written interview Yücel conducted with the German press agency dpa via his lawyers, he mentioned agreements that France's government had made with Turkey and said he did not want his freedom to be "tainted with Rheinmetall's tank deals" or by Germany's extradition of "pro-coup ex-officers." He made it clear that "I'm not available for dirty deals." Gabriel dismissed this, saying there was no dirty deal in the works. Yücel will not remain silent; he intends to observe, write and continue his work as a journalist, even if he has to do so in prison. While in police custody he wrote next to the pictures in a copy of "The Little Prince," which was then smuggled out. In his new book, he promises that he will carry on, "because we're not here for fun." That spirit is shared by contributors to the new book. "There is only one reason to lock people like Deniz Yücel away: It is to force them finally to shut up," the German-Croatian journalist Doris Akrap writes in the foreword. "To make it clear that this is not going to happen, this book is coming out." June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 17, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the German newspaper "Die Welt" was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu, have also been detained in Turkey for what Berlin says are "political reasons." Turkey has accused some of them of allegedly supporting terrorist organizations. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier