In one of the most remarkable Olympic finishes ever, Czech snowboarder Ester Ledecka won gold in the women's Super-G by one hundreth of a second. Having crossed the line, Ledecka looked shocked at her time. "How did that happen," the television cameras overheard her say. Read more: Winter Olympics: Day 8 Live "I thought this was a mistake," she said after the race. "I was looking at the board and I thought OK, you're going to put there a couple of more seconds. I was just waiting and watching, waiting until they would change the time." Perhaps Ledecka was still in shock during her press conference later, as she kept her goggles on to hide the absence of make-up. Austria's Anna Veith, the defending champion, had already started giving interviews and had been congratulated by the IOC President Thomas Bach, when Ledecka crossed over the line to win by the finest of margins. The 22-year-old Czech is also competing at Pyeongchang in the parallel giant slalom snowboarding as reigning world champion. In her previous nine World Cup Super-G races, Ledecka had never finished better than 19th and has only had one top 10 finish on skiing's World Cup circuit. Read more: Winter Olympics: German figure-skating gold a Ukrainian-French coproduction Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. Despite starting third, Laura Dahlmeier, 24, held off competitors in the Women's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint to win her first Olympic gold medal. "I have dreamed of this day for a long time. I still cannot believe it," Dahlmeier said afterwards. Returning US Olympian Lindsey Vonn finished sixth after an error of judgement on one of the final bends cost her. "It's definitely shocking," Vonn said of Ledecka's win. "She beat me in training in Lake Louise — that was also surprising." "I feel like in the Olympics a lot of things can happen, it's not that she didn't deserve it, but there's a lot of pressure on the favourites." Unburdened by the weight of expectation, Ledecka punched the air when she realized she had gone one better than her grandfather, who won bronze and silver medals with the Czechoslovakian ice-hockey team in the 1960s. "I like Gangneung. It's much smaller than Seoul and the pace of life is slower," says Seoul-based photographer Jun Michael Park. While this year's Winter Olympics are named after Pyeongchang, a conglomerate of small mountain towns, many see Gangneung as the heart of the spectacle. The coastal city with 214,000 inhabitants hosts the ice events which are particulary popular with South Koreans. The Olympic run on Gangeung is unlikely to pay off for these women selling dried fish at Jungang Market, as most visitors spend more time at the Olympic Park than in the city center. For Jun Michael Park, exploring the town with its long fishing tradition feels like walking down memory lane. "There are many quiet alleyways, kind of forgotten and left to decay." As the smallest host since 1994, Pyeonchang stands out against its former competitors - metropolises like Vancouver and Turin. The county in the Taebaek Mountains, located 130 kilometers east of Seoul, consists of seven scarcely populated townships and a town with 10,000 residents. What looks like a spontaneous power nap is in fact a focused search for the next catch. This year, visitors to Pyeongchang's annual trout fishing festival are braving the region's freezing temperatures and strong winds against the backdrop of the Winter Olympics. The fish are caught by drilling holes into the frozen surface of a stream. Local restaurants prepare the catch. Since the Netherlands are speed skating's dominant power, large numbers of Dutch fans traveled to the Olympics. Jun Michael Park met these friends and relatives of short-track speed skater Lara van Ruijven in Gangneung. "They wanted to try some local food, so they walked into a snack joint where I was having Ddeokbokki (a spicy and chewy rice cake) and Soondae (stuffed pig intestine)." In the cold of Pyeongchang and Gangneung, the warm welcome offered to North Korea as well as Kim Jong Un's bombshell invitation to South Korean president Moon Jae-in seem to have defrosted tensions between the bitter neighbors. This North Korean flag hangs on a building in the Olympic village in Gangneung. Raising the North's flag is usually prohibited in South Korea. While all Olympic teams are an expression of a country's hopes and dreams, this is particularly true when it comes to the joint Korean women's ice hockey team. These fans enthusiastically waved flags showing the whole Korean peninsula at a rally in Gangneung. It's the first time in 27 years that the hostile countries have fielded a joint team at a major sports event. Not everyone welcomes the exercise in sports diplomacy. Jun Michael Park passed this protest staged in Pyeongchang at the opening weekend of the Games. According to him, most participants were supporters of former South Korean President Park Geun-hye, who was impeached in March 2017 following a large-scale corruption scandal. "They want the US to bomb North Korea and to reinstate Park." According to South Korea, any future dialogue with the North would involve discussing the reunification of families separated by the Korean War. The Goseong Unification Observatory, located 130 kilometers from Gangneung, offers a view of the Demilitarized Zone dividing the peninsula. "The ribbons display wishes for peace and reunification, left by visitors," Jun Michael Park explains. Sports enthusiasm turns up in the most unexpected places, like this residential house in the village of Hoenggye. It features paintings of Winter Olympics and Paralympics mascots all the way back to the 1992 Games in Albertville, Canada. This year's mascots are a white tiger and a black bear - two animals deeply rooted in Korean culture. Author: Helena Kaschel