US President Donald Trump on Friday approved the release of a classified memo created by a Republican on the House Intelligence Committee. According to some Republican lawmakers, the memo shows anti-Trump bias at the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Justice Department. Read the memo released by the US House of Representatives Intelligence Committee What we know: According to the memo, the controversial Steele dossier formed "an essential part" of the FBI's request to eavesdrop on Trump campaign aide Carter Page without pointing out that the campaign of Trump's election rival, Hillary Clinton, contributed funding to pay Steele. Read more: FBI expresses 'grave concerns about material omissions of fact' in Russia memo Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2s3cP What they said: After authorizing the memo's publication, Trump said: "I think it's a disgrace what's going on in this country … A lot of people should be ashamed of themselves, and much worse than that," an apparent reference to senior FBI officials. Earlier this week, the FBI warned against releasing the memo, saying: "As expressed during our initial review, we have grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo's accuracy." Read more: Donald Trump backtracks on Russia election meddling defense The Democratic lawmakers on the House Intelligence Committee said the release of the memo "will do long-term damage to the intelligence community and our law enforcement agencies." It dismissed claims that the FBI and Justice Department misled the FISA court to snoop on Page. Other Democrats said using the memo as grounds to fire the head of the Russia probe, Robert Mueller, could trigger a "constitutional crisis." Christopher Wray, the current FBI director, said in a statement to the agency's employees: "I stand by our shared determination to do our work independently and by the book. Talk is cheap. The work you do will endure." The FBI Agents Association President Thomas O'Connor said the bureau "will not allow partisan politics to distract" from its mission. "The American people should know that they continue to be well-served by the world's pre-eminent law enforcement agency." Former FBI Director James Comey, who was fired by Trump last year, responded to the memo's release on Twitter, writing: "That’s it?" He also called the memo "dishonest and misleading." Why is the memo controversial: The memo alleges that the FBI used a dossier partially paid for by the Democratic National Committee to gain greater access to the Trump campaign in their probe into Russian election meddling. Read more: Moscow laughs off Washington's 'Kremlin Report' What happens next: The Democratic panel on the House Intelligence Committee has said they're hoping to release their own memo by Monday. June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians." An FBI agent told a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, said there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announced it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers. Senator Jeff Sessions - an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee - met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event. Julian Assange's WikiLeaks published 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders. The FBI announced it was investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected president of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov said there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issued a firm denial. Trump named General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Acting attorney general Sally Yates told White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fired Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts. Trump said he had "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI Director James Comey confirmed before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign. In a letter announcing the termination, Trump wrote: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau." Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Shortly after Mueller convenes a grand jury for the investigation, the FBI seizes documents from one of Paul Manafort’s properties as part of a raid for Mueller’s probe. The former Trump campaigner manager stepped down in August 2016 after allegations surfaced that he had received large payments linked to Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government. Donald Trump Jr. tells the Senate Judiciary Committee he has not colluded with a foreign government. The closed-door interview relates to his June 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, which was also attended by his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and then campaign manager Paul Manafort. Trump Jr.’s emails, however, suggest the meeting was supposed to produce dirt on Clinton. Facebook, Twitter and Google reportedly tell US media they have evidence that Russian operatives exploited platforms to spread disinformation during the 2016 US presidential election. The three companies are expected to appear before a Senate Intelligence Committee in November. Author: Jo Harper, Kathleen Schuster rs, ls/cmk (Reuters, AP)