More than 90 migrants are feared to have drowned after their boat capsized off the coast of Libya on Friday, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said. The boat, which was taking a commonly used smugglers route to Italy via the Mediterranean Sea, capsized off the coast near the city of Zuwara in the early hours of Friday. Read more: EU refugee quotas: interior ministers seek compromise as deadline looms The details A journey combined with misery as well as dangers for the body and the soul: In their escape from war and suffering, hundreds of thousands of people, mostly from Syria, traveled to Greece from Turkey in 2015 and 2016. There are still around 10,000 people stranded on the islands of Lesbos, Chios and Samos. More than 6,000 new arrivals were recorded this year from January to May. In 2015 and 2016, more than a million people tried to reach Western Europe from Greece or Turkey over the Balkan route - through Macedonia, Serbia and Hungary. The stream of refugees stopped only when the route was officially closed and many countries sealed their borders. Today, most refugees opt for the dangerous Mediterranean route from Libya to Europe. This picture shook the world. The body of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi from Syria washed up on a beach in Turkey in September 2015. The photograph was widely circulated in social networks and became a symbol of the refugee crisis. Europe could not look away anymore. Last-minute rush: Thousands of refugees tried to get into overcrowded buses and trains in Croatia after it became known that the route through Europe would not remain open for long. In October 2015, Hungary closed its borders and installed container camps, where refugees would be kept for the duration of their asylum process. A Hungarian journalist caused uproar in September 2015 after she tripped a Syrian man who was trying to run from the police at Roszke, near the Hungarian border with Serbia. At the peak of the crisis, the tone against refugees became coarser. In Germany, attacks on refugee homes increased. The official closure of the Balkan route in March 2016 led to tumultuous scenes at border crossings. Thousands of refugees were stranded and there were reports of brutal violence. Many tried to circumvent border crossings, like these refugees at the Greek-Macedonian border shortly after borders were closed. A child covered in blood and dust: the photograph of five-year-old Omran shocked the public when it was released in 2016. It became an allegory of the horror of the Syrian civil war and the suffering of the Syrian people. One year later, new pictures of the boy circulated on the internet, showing him much happier. Assad supporters say the picture last year was planted for propaganda purposes. A Syrian man carries his daughter in the rain at the Greek-Macedonian border in Idomeni. He hopes for security for his family in Europe. According to the Dublin regulation, asylum can be applied only in the country where the refugee first entered Europe. Many who travel further on are sent back. Above all, Greece and Italy carry the largest burden. Germany remains the top destination, although the refugee and asylum policy in Germany has become more restrictive following the massive influx. No country in Europe has taken in as many refugees as Germany, which took in 1.2 million since the influx began in 2015. Chancellor Angela Merkel was an icon for many of the newcomers. In France's north, authorities clean up the infamous "jungle" in Calais. The camp caught fire during the evacuation in October 2016. Around 6,500 residents were distributed among other shelters in France. Half a year later, aid organizations reported many minor refugees living as homeless people around Calais. NGO and government rescue ships are constantly on the lookout for migrant boats in distress. Despite extreme danger during their voyage, many refugees, fleeing poverty or conflict in the home countries, expect to find a better future in Europe. The overcrowded boats and rubber dinghies often capsize. In 2017 alone, 1,800 people died in the crossing. In 2016, 5,000 people lost their lives. Hundreds of thousands of refugees from Sub Saharan Africa and the Middle East wait in Libyan detention camps to cross the Mediterranean. Human smugglers and traffickers control the business. The conditions in the camps are reportedly catastrophic, human rights organizations say. Eyewitnesses report of slavery and forced prostitution. Still, the inmates never give up the dream of coming to Europe. Author: Charlotte Hauswedell Every life lost 'one too many' Speaking in Brussels on Friday, European Union foreign policy spokeswoman Catherine Ray said the EU would continue its rescue operations in the Mediterranean Sea and its fight against traffickers who put migrants' lives in danger. Read more: Germany's Bundestag votes to expand refugee family reunifications "Every life lost at sea is one life too many," Ray said. The IOM said it was surprising that Libyans were among the dead, noting that in all of 2017 just 29 Libyan nationals were rescued or intercepted trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea and no Libyan deaths were recorded. Referring to Libyans being among migrants trying to reach Europe, IOM spokesman Joel Millman told the AFP news agency, "We haven't [really] seen that before. They could have been smugglers." Read more: Applications for EU asylum drop by nearly half in 2017 Number of Pakistani migrants increasing: The IOM said Pakistani migrants made up the 13th largest group trying to reach Europe via the Mediterranean last year, with 3,138 arriving in Italy in 2017, and no recorded sea deaths. They have, however, climbed to third place so far this year, with an estimated 240 Pakistanis reaching Italy in January, compared to just nine during January 2017. Read more: Italy: 800 migrants rescued from Mediterranean Sea, two bodies found Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rsyW Migration to Europe in 2018: Friday's incident comes after a dinghy with about 130 people on board capsized in the Mediterranean on Saturday night, leaving up to 40 dead. More than 6,600 migrants and refugees have already entered Europe by sea this year, the IOM said, with the journey to Italy via the central Mediterranean route making up almost 65 percent of the entries. More than 700,000 applications for asylum were lodged in Europe in 2017, but the number of applications dropped by 43 percent in 2017 compared to 2016, according to the EU Asylum Support Office. law/sms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)