In the run-up to the presidential elections in Russia, Moldovan President Igor Dodon praised his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, saying that his own country "is lacking such a patriot at its head." Putin, who is running for his fourth presidential term, is widely expected to be re-elected on March 18. Ahead of his visit to Berlin later this week, Dodon told DW that he has "very good relations" with the Russian leader and expects the cooperation between his country and Moscow to continue if Putin stays in the Kremlin. However, he sought to counter perceptions of him as a pro-Russian president, arguing that he is a "pro-Moldovan politician." Dodon says his country is neither pro-Russian nor pro-West Tighter cooperation with Russia Still, Dodon, the first Moldovan leader in the last 20 years to be elected by direct vote and not by the parliament, is widely seen as a big admirer of Putin. During the election campaign in 2016 and in the first year of his presidency, he called for closer ties with Russia and for revoking Moldova's association agreement with the European Union. Dodon hasn't ruled out that this agreement could be annulled after the parliamentary elections in Moldova scheduled for November. However, he seemed less committed to that idea during his interview with DW, saying that the association agreement is active and that reforms are underway. Maintaining good relations with the EU is critical to Moldova, whose citizens can travel without a visa to the bloc's Schengen countries [those European countries that have officially abolished passport and all other types of border control at their mutual borders — the ed.]. Read more: Opinion: Is Moldova's European dream over? Moldova not ready for EU membership Dodon's view on Moldova's association with the EU is the source of an ongoing clash between the president, his country's pro-European parliament, and the Cabinet, which also favors moving toward the EU. Since October, Moldova's constitutional court has suspended Dodon's powers three times. In two instances the suspension followed the president's repeated refusal to appoint key government ministers proposed by Prime Minister Pavel Filip. The most recent suspension at the beginning of the year came after he declined to sign a bill into law that would ban the broadcast of Russian TV and radio programs in Moldova. The country's constitutional court explained that the suspension was needed in order for the new regulation to go into effect. In the interview, Dodon criticized the association agreement, arguing that opening the Moldovan market to goods from the EU is discriminating against domestic manufacturers. He also claimed that those parts of the document pertaining to defense and military issues are vague and that Moldova is a neutral country that shouldn't be part of any bloc, including NATO. "Moldova won't survive if someone — the West or the East — tries to use us for military purposes." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1GcBk Dodon also underlined that he doesn't believe his country would ever become a member of the European Union: "Brussels is not ready for that; it was made clear during the Eastern Partnership Summit, which took place recently. And Moldova is not ready itself." Friends with Russia and the West? He also claimed that the post-Soviet republic shouldn't side with either Russia or the West but should rather stay on good terms with everyone. "I think that Moldova can survive only if it has good relations with the West and the East. We can't be friends with Russia and oppose Europe or be friends with Europe and oppose Russia." Dodon also compared his country's situation regarding its breakaway region of Transnistria to that of Ukraine, where the war-torn east is being controlled by Russia-backed separatists. Transnistria declared independence in 1990 but has never been recognized by the international community. In 2006, the region with a primarily Russian-speaking population held a referendum in which 97 percent of the electorate voted for its independence from the central government and subsequent integration into Russia, which has had military forces there since 1992. Moldova's authorities and the international community refused to recognize the results of the referendum. The Transnistria problem The Moldovan president said he expects Germany to demonstrate an active position in settling the frozen conflict in Transnistria. Dodon said he believes that Russia and the West will need to develop a common agenda for Transnistria, with Russia's role in resolving the conflict seen as crucial. The international talks on Transnistria that have been in place since 2005 involve Moldova and the separatist region, with Russia, Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe acting as mediators. The European Union and the US have been taking part as observers. The Moldovan government has repeatedly called for the withdrawal of Russian troops from Transnistria. Russia, however, argues that such a move could lead to renewed tension in southeastern Europe. Dodon was dismissive of the possible unification of Moldova and Romania — an idea that has been floated for some time. Dodon said such a move would result in civil war. "We went through that at the beginning of the 1990s. That is exactly the reason for the Transnistria problem." In 1991, the Soviet Union broke into pieces from which 15 new sovereign countries were born. Yet Transnistria, the Russian-speaking region in the easternmost part of Moldova, was not among them. The self-proclaimed "presidential republic" has its government, army, flag, emblem, anthem and even passports, which are valid in only three countries in the world. Anton Polyakov was born in the Transnistrian capital of Tiraspol in 1990, the year the region declared independence from Moldova. He has been capturing the daily life of Transnistrians since 2012. "For many, Transnistria is a new country without a past, but some see it as a continuation of the Soviet Union," says the photographer. Portrayed here is famous Soviet footballer Alexander Veryovkin. When Polyakov was 2, tensions between the country and the region led to a war, which was quickly put down by Russia's intervention. "People are still sentimental about the Soviet times here," says Polyakov. May 9, the "Victory Day" of the Great Patriotic War between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, is remembered across the region with battle reenactments. The Transnistrian government wants to be ready to fight on real front lines, too. Basic military training is part of high school curricula, military parades take place every year and body-building contests are hugely popular. According to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the region owns 20,000 to 40,000 tonnes of Soviet-era weaponry. The OSCE report from 2015 also states that Russian military personnel is still present in Transnistria, despite the 1999 Istanbul Summit deal to withdraw. "People here see Russia as the main guarantor of security in the region and want Russia's recognition," says Polyakov. Most Transnistrians voted for independence and potential future integration into Russia in a referendum held in 2006. With a population of roughly 475,000 and an area of 4,163 square kilometers, Transnistria is one of the smallest countries in Europe. Its GDP is comparable with Nigeria but higher than Moldova's. The economy is driven by heavy industry, electricity production and textile manufacturing, but the trade restrictions related to the Ukrainian conflict are bringing the region close to economic collapse. While there are jobs in the cities – albeit poorly paid, with an average salary of 180 euros ($200) – living in the Transnistrian countryside is a different story. "We may think it is great to live in the picturesque nature of the region, but there are no opportunities nor infrastructure. With nothing to do, young people leave and go to the cities or Russia as soon as they can," says Polyakov. The future of Transnistria is dependent on Russia, which views the region as strategically important. And it intends to stick with "the format of the existing peacekeeping mission in Transnistria," which essentially means keeping Russian soldiers there. "This is why Transnistria is still not an independent political player. This makes my home a hostage to the political situation," says Polyakov. Author: Jan Tomes