Day 4 in Pyeongchang saw another US teenage sensation on the snow, drama on the ice and more German gold. Chloe Kim won the women's halfpipe aged just 17 with a near perfect score of 98.25 after landing back to back 1080s. China's Liu Jiayu won silver ahead of American Arielle Gold. Read more: Teen sensation Kim storms to glory Kim was too young for Sochi – despite scoring well enough to qualify – but her performance in South Korea suggests she'll be around to dominate for a while. Germany's lead at the top of the medals table continued on day four after Natalie Geisenberger sealed her second-consecutive individual Olympic gold in the luge. With her Pyeongchang gold, Geisenberger's tally is now even more impressive. The 30-year-old now has four Olympic medals (three gold, one bronze) to add to her seven world championship golds. Germany secured an impressive one-two after Dajana Eitberger took silver ahead of Canada's Alex Gough. For a while, it looked as though Germany might get all three spots on the podium but a poor finish from Tatjana Hüfner handed Gough the bronze. With the weather finally clear enough to get the skiing started, Austria's Marcel Hirscher claimed his first Olympic gold to prove his status as the world's best male skiier. Hirscher looked the only man capable of handling a tricky slalom course and in doing so sealed the men's alpine skiing combined title. France picked up both gold and silver through Alexis Pinturault and Victor Muffat-Jeandet respectively. There was intense drama in the ladies' speed skating. After Olympic records in the early rounds, Italy's Arianna Fontana made sure her sixth Olympic medal was gold. Great Britain's hope Elise Christie crashed out and South Korean favorite Choi Minjeong lost the silver after a penalty review. Canada won gold in the mixed doubles curling, while the Netherlands celebrated a one-two in the men's 1,500m speed skating. The cross-country sprint saw the Scandanavian countries dominate as Sweden's Stina Nilsson beat the defending champion to claim gold in the women's, and Norwegian hearthrob Johannes Hoesflot Klaebo made history by becoming the youngest-ever (21) cross-country skiing Olympic champion. As it happened: 15:22 USA! Day four is wrapped up with a comprehensive win for Team USA in the ice hockey. The ladies saw off OAR 5-0 leaving the Americans second by one goal in Group A to the Canadians. Thank you for joining us today. Be sure to tune in tomorrow when we've got medals in the alpine skiing, the biathlon and many more. 14:14 Back on the ice to finish With day four coming to an end in Pyeongchang, the US are playing OAR in the women's ice hockey. At the end of the second period, the US are 4-0 up and although there's one group game left to play, they are coasting into the knockouts where they'll join Canada, Switzerland and Sweden. 14:00 Norwegian gold! Is that Matt Damon? No, it's Norway's Johannes Hoesflot Klaebo who has won gold for Norway in the men's cross country sprint classic. Klaebo becomes the youngest ever cross country skiing Olympic champion in the process. Look at the finish for second and third though! Italy's Federico Pellegrino just edges out OAR's Alexander Bolshunov. 13:54 GEISENBERGER wins GOLD! Was it ever in doubt? After the Felix Loch disappointment, this is huge for Team Germany. And for Canada too - Gough's bronze is the Canadian's first ever in the women's event. 13:52 Dutch delight! In the men's 1,500m speed skating, the Dutch have claimed a one-two. Kjeld Nuis took gold ahead of long-time leader Patrick Roest. South Korea's Kim Min seok was in third. 13:48 MORE LUGE DRAMA! I can't believe it. Alex Gough does have a medal after Tatjana Huefner misses out on a top three spot with a poor finish. Can Geisenberger claim it? 13:45 Lovely Luge Canada's Alex Gough misses out on the chance to take top spot! Germany's Dajana Eitberger leading right now... The one, two, three is on! 13:41 Who will win? That was quite the reminder as to just how dangerous the sport is. The final is underway and so it's time to find out whether Germany can get all three spots on the podium... 13:37 Luge accident Some uncomfortable scenes in the luge as American Emily Sweeney suffers a horrid crash. Some delay before the final continues as she receives medical treatment but the good sign is that she is on her feet. Thoughts with her after that. 13:34 GOLD for Sweden! Sweden's Stina Nilsson has taken gold in the ladies' cross country sprint classic, beating defending champion Maiken Caspersen Falla (Norway). It was Sweden's first ever medal in the event. OAR's Yulia Belorukova won bronze. 13:22 GOLD for Canada! The Canadian's never relinquished their lead in curling and with two ends remaining, the Swiss conceded as the pair of John Morris and Kaitlyn Lawes won 10-3 over Jenny Perret and Martin Rios. Canada are closing in on Germany in the medals table now... 13:11 GOLD for Italy! What drama! Arianna Fontana wins the ladies' 500m speed skating final on a photo finish ahead of South Korea's Fontana has five Olympic medals but her sixth is her first gold. Elise Christie crashed out on the final lap. South Korea's Choi Minjeong appears to take silver but is then penalized on review to the shock of the home crowd. That means the Netherlands' Yara van Kerkhof takes silver, with Canada's Kim Boutin  taking bronze. Final results: 13:08 What's happened so far What's coming next 13:00 Curling final hotting up Canada have taken a 6-3 lead going into the fifth. A 4-0 win in the third puts them in a commanding position, but there are still four ends left. Clearly, the curling craze is working too. Are you changing the way you clean your floors now? 12:54 Relay final set In the second heat of the men's 5,000m short track speed skating, South Korea delighted the home crowd by sealing the win ahead of Hungary. Remarkably, the South Koreans broke the Olympic record set by China in the previous heat. Tomorrow, they'll go for the medals. 12:45 Luge glory looms for Germany Germany might be celebrating yet another gold today. In the women's luge, Natalie Geisenberger leads ahead of fellow German, Tatjana Huefner. Canada's Alex Gough is in third. The final run is later this afternoon and if Dajana Eitberger can jump up from seventh, Germany could hold all three spots on the podium. 12:43 Relay mayhem The men's 5,000m short track speed skating relay is underway and my goodness is it a fight on the ice. When the racers swap in, they're pushed forward by the outgoing racer and there are plenty of elbows flying about as the four-men teams swap in and out. The Chinese men have won the first heat in an Olympic record ahead of the Canadians, who sneaked in after the Dutch were penalized. 12:29 Golden skates and curls In the men's 1,500m speed skating final, Dutchman Patrick Roest has set the bar with a time of 1:44.86. Japan's shane Williamson has just posted the second fastest time, but there are quite a few racers left. The mixed doubles curling final sees Canada pit off against Switzerland and going into the third end the match is tied at 2-2. 12:20 Speed skating drama! China's Fan Kexin doesn't make the final after missing out in the first semifinal after a penalty. Even more remarkable was that Choi Minjeong set the second Olympic record of the morning in her semifinal. In Christie's semifinal, there was another photo finish that sees a five-person final later on today. 12:09 Medal time approaching The skating is in full flow today! 11:15 Semifinalists decided! A few slips and falls, and quite a lot of drama but the top two have been decided. World record holder Elise Christie set a new Olympic record in her quarterfinal and will be going for gold later on. Some surprise as 5-time world champion Fan Kexin only slipped through in second. Local favorite and Olympic record holder Choi Minjeong was involved in a dramatic photo finish that appeared to see all four cross the line at the same time! What a set of races! 11:04 Short-track speed skating It's quarterfinals time in the ladies' 500m speed skating. The men get their heats started later, but today is decision day. In a couple of hours time, we'll know who the gold medal winner is. 10:57 Comfortable Canada The Canadian women sealed a 4-1 win over Finland in Group A in the women's ice hockey. That virtually secures them qualification for the knockout rounds. Later today, the other two teams in the group - the USA and Olympic Athletes from Russia - will play in a game OAR must win to stand a chance of progressing. 10:35 Attendance concerns? With the crowd numbers not as high as organizers desired, a move has been made to increase participation. A spokesman said the Olympic Park in Pyeongchang would now be free to enter (visitors previously had to spend a small fee) for spectactors arriving after 5 p.m. local time. While this might increase numbers in the Park, attendance at some events remains low with high winds and freezing temperatures likely playing a role. Nevertheless, organizing committee spokesman Sung Baik You said Korean ticket sales were slightly higher than those in Russia four years ago. As one reporter posted on social media, even the journalists are having a hard time catching the action: 10:08 Finn soup The Canadian women lead 4-0 against Finland at the end of the second period in the ice hockey. Fair to say, that the Canadian's already look favorites to win the gold. 09:57 Radford wins more than gold Canada's Eric Radford won gold on Monday in the figure skating team event and in doing so became the first openly gay man to winter a Winter Olympic gold. The head of the IOC athletes commission Angelo Ruggiero called Radford's achievement "fantastic." "We celebrate diversity at the IOC and that's something that's hopefully fundamental to what we want in Olympic value," added Ruggiero. "I think it's encouraging, it sends a strong message to that fundamental principle of acceptance globally." The 33-year-old won silver in the 2014 Olympics, but this was his first gold.  09:32 Cross country The long, march through the snow has begun as the cross-country skiing qualification gets underway. First up, it's the Ladies' Spring, then the men's. The fastest 30 make the quarterfinals, then the top two from the heats and the fastest third and fourth placed finishes make the semifinals. From there, the same rules apply for the final which is at around 13:25 CET. 08:48 On the ice! In the women's group-stage ice hockey, Canada and Finland have got underway although the Finns don't look like they heard the whistle as Meghan Agosta has given the Canadian's the lead after just 35 seconds! Canada are currently top of Group A, ahead of the US (who also won their opener) on goal difference. 08:15 Morning roundup! If your day has just started, welcome to day four of the Winter Olympics! Here's a quick look at what has happened so far today. Read more: 17-year-old Chloe Kim storms to halfpipe gold 07:44 GOLD for Hirscher! We have a winner! Austria's Marcel Hirscher claims gold in the Men's Alpine Slalom! France get silver and bronze through Alexis Pinturault and Victor Muffat-Jeandet respectively. 07:40 Three no finishes in a row! The Men's Alpine Slalom is turning into a brutal event. Three racers fail to get over the line, crashing out or skiing the wrong line earlier on in the course. The next two finish two seconds slower than the current leaders. What a battle! Not many left now... 07:31 First doping case Japan's short-track speed skater Kei Saito failed an out-of-competition doping test on the day of his arrival in Pyeongchang and has been expelled from the Games. The reserve athlete - who had not yet competed in South Korea - tested positive for the masking agent acetazolamide. Saito said he was "extremely shocked" by the results and denied intentionally doping. The Court of Arbitration (CAS) said its panel handling Olympic doping cases will issue a final verdict after the games are over. 07:26 Hirscher in a hurry! Austria's Marcel Hirscher storms down the Jeongseon Alpine Centre to take top spot off Muffat-Jeandet. He was a little slow to start, but Hirscher threw himself over the line to finish 0.01 seconds ahead of the Frenchman. Wow! 07:18 Lots of medals still to win! Even if you're rubbing the sleep out of your eyes right about now, there's plenty of reasons to stay awake with plenty of exciting events ahead. 07:11 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom Tough conditions out there on the slopes at the moment. It's icy and making like even trickier for racers. So far, France's Victor Muffat-Jeandet leads ahead of America's Ted Ligety and Slovenia's Stefan Hadalin. Quite a few left to make the run though, including Germany's Thomas Dressen. 06:46  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: Oneupmanship continues! We've just seen two qualification runs of the highest order. You might as well make this the final, the standard is so high - the crazy thing is we haven't even seen the best these guys have to offer. Australia's Scotty James get a score of 96.75, only to be bettered by Shaun White who just hit a 98.50. The final tomorrow is a must-watch! 06:35 Women's Halfpipe: Kim gets a pass 06:27  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: Hirano snatches the lead! Shaun White has been put on notice. His pursuit of a third Olympic gold isn't going to be a stroll in the park as Japan's Ayumu Hirano has just taken the lead with a score of 95.25. Hirano won silver four years ago in sochi when he was just 15 years old and looks like he could still take it up a gear in Pyeongchang. Right afterwards his compatriot, Raibu Katayama notches a score of 90.75, meaning the top five riders have all scored above 90. The magic number right now is 75.00. 06:11  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: Guess who's on top! All 29 riders have been down the halfpipe once and it's Shaun White, "The Flying Tomato", who has set the benchmark. A reminder that only the top 12 go through. Riders need a score of at least 71.25 to stand a chance of qualifying at present. For now here's a look at the top five after Run 1: 1. Shaun White (USA) - 93.25 2. Ben Ferguson (USA) - 91.00 3. Scotty James (Australia) - 89.00 4. Ayumu Hirano (Japan) - 87.50 5. Raibu Katayama (Japan) - 85.50 06:05 Women's Halfpipe: Kim on winning gold Here's what American Chloe Kim, whose family are from South Korea, had to say after claiming gold in the women's halfpipe event with a near flawless performance. "It's such an honour and do it for my parents. They've done so much for me and my career, I think, and I'm so happy with the outcome. It hasn’t really sunk in yet. I'm on such a high, an adrenaline rush. I don't really know what just happened. I need to go home and process everything and I'll probably bawl my eyes out some more, but this has been a dream of mine since I was a little girl, so just to be here and to be able to do it when it mattered feels amazing." 05:55 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: Dreßen leads Making good use of the No. 1 starting bib, Thomas Dreßen of Germany leads the downhill run of the combined event that opened the wind-buffeted Olympic program in Alpine skiing. Dreßen was 0.07 seconds faster than Aksel Lund Svindal of Norway, and 0.13 ahead of Matthias Mayer of Austria, the 2014 Olympic champion in downhill. The world's best slalom skier, Marcel Hirscher, is well placed with just 1.32 to make up in his specialized discipline later this afternoon. The gold medalist will be the skier with the fastest combined time. 05:46  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: Google it! Viewer discretion is advised, but if you want to watch a really gnarly video that show you just what Shaun White is made of then google: "Shaun White 62 stitches". Yes you read that right, watch the video. 05:34  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: White moves into first! Beast mode engaged. Shaun White saw that the bar had been set high in qualifying and just raised it with his first run, nailing a string of iconic, self-named tricks and being awarded a score of 93.25 by the judges. I'm just going to leave some reactions here! 05:20  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: Ferguson on fire! The men are putting on a real show in qualifying. Double Cork, Frontside and Cab 1080s have been commonplace so far, while the heights these guys are hitting is something to behold. That being said the wind is starting to kick up. So far there haven't been any problems even if the snow is whipping up in places. There are 29 riders in this qualification group. Two runs each. The top 12 will go through into tomorrow's final. Ben Ferguson is currently leading with a 91.00 having landed a Double Crippler, Double Rodeo and a Switch McTwist. My mouth is on the table and that's not just because I'm in need of sleep ;) Shaun White is coming up shortly. 05:00 Curling Mixed Doubles: Not a bad eight months! 04:50 Women's luge: Coming up later today! Germany are the nation to beat in the women's luge field. Natalie Geisenberger, who turns 30 this month, is the clear favorite as she looks to defend her Olympic crown. She has finished in the top two in 11 of 13 World Cup races this season and is definitely the one to watch. 04:33 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: We have skiing! Germany's Thomas Dressen, the first racer to take to the hill, is still leading in the downhill portion of the men's combined. Norway's Aksel Lund Vindal is less than a tenth of a second behind Dressen, while Marcel Hirscher, who is a slalom specialist, is currently sat in 10th primed to make a push for gold when the slalom discipline takes centre stage. 64 racers to race. The top 30 move on when the events flips. Meanwhile, American women's racer Lindsey Vonn is having her patience tested! 04:10  Men's Halfpipe qualifying: White returns! Chloe Kim got the ball rolling in halfpipe competition and coming up shortly, the start of qualifying in the Men's event. Kim has ben called the 'Shaun White' of women's snowboarding, but the real Shaun White will be taking to the course in his fourth Olympic Games. 03:50 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: We have skiing! Finally, two days late, we finally get to see an alpine skiing event at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang! The wind is still a factor for the men's combined, which is a combination of the downhill and slalom disciplines. Germany's Thomas Dressen currently leads, while we've see OAR's Pavel Trikhichev and America's Ryan Cochran-Siegle both walk away from high-speed crashes. Austria's Marcel Hirscher is the favorite, but trails Dressen at present. 03:35 Women's Halfpipe: Changing of the guard Kelly Clark carved out the path for the rise of women's halfpipe snowboarding, but Chloe Kim is changing the game. 03:31 Women's Halfpipe: Chloe Kim claims gold! Chloe Kim was the favorite going into the final and it wasn't hard to see why as she takes gold. She is the queen of the halfpipe! Her first run was a cut above the competition on Run 1, but she landed back-to-back 1080s, following in the footsteps of the legendary Shaun White, to get a score of 98.25. WHAT? BACK-TO-BACK 1080s! 98.25! That's insane! No one came close to matching her amplitude and technical ability. What is it with American 17-year-olds and winning gold in snowboarding events? Elsewhere, Arielle Gold threw down a run that saw her pip the veteran Kelly Clark to a bronze medal, while Liu Jiayu, who came so close to landing a 1080 of her own, had to settle for a silver medal after falling on her third run as she sought to improve upon her second run score. 1. Kim (USA) - 98.25 2. Liu (China) - 89.75 3. Gold (USA) - 85.75 4. Clark (USA) - 83.50 Chloe Kim was on fire as she stormed to a gold medal at the Phoenix Snow Park. 03:24 Women's Halfpipe: In the mind of a gold medalist! On course to win gold in her debut Olympics at the age of 17, here's what is currently on the mind of Chloe Kim. I wonder what was on the sandwich. Ham? Cheese? Chorizo? Kimchi? 03:07 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: I think it's happening! I'm starting to believe! There is an Alpine event is on the cards. Wohooo! 02:59 Women's Halfpipe: Kim proves to be human A few more falls litter Run 2 as riders begin to take more risks in a bid to finish on the podium. The bar has well and truly been raised though. Arielle Gold landed her 1080 to complete a run which scores 74.75, but teammate Maddie Mastro couldn't follow suit, underrotating on a 1080 of her own. Kelly Clark and Liu Jiayu both improved upon their first run scores, but neither really posed much threat to Kim, who is closing in on a victory lap despite proving to be human after all, failing to land back-to-back 1080s. We saw here pull it off in the X Games, so don't go anywhere. 1. Kim (USA) - 93.75 2. Liu (China) - 89.75 3. Clark (USA) - 81.75 4. Gold (USA) - 74.75 02:47 Curling Mixed Doubles: OAR claim bronze The first medal of the day goes to OAR courtesy of a 8-4 win over Norway, who tired, but ultimately failed to claw back an early deficit. That's a third medal on the board for OAR now. Aleksandr Krushelnitckii and Anastasia Bryzgalova impressed as OAR took bronze in the Curling Mixed Doubles. 02:27 Women's Halfpipe: Run 1 done and dusted The ability, skill and the tricks of these snowboarders is beyond belief! Three falls, plenty of 900s, 720s and 540s and a smattering of 1080s delighted during Run 1 of the final. Unsurprisingly, 17-year-old Chloe Kim, the youngest person to win three X Games titles, is on course to win gold stomping a ridiculous run which included a frontside 1080, a frontside 900, a McTwist and a huge inverted 720. What a run! We're seeing most of the riders try and use their first run to give themselves something to build on so expect amplitude and technical skill to increase as we go on. 1. Kim (USA) - 93.75 2. Liu (China) - 85.50 3. Clark (USA) - 76.25 02:07 Women's Halfpipe: It's go time! Here's the running order at the Phoenix Park where it's -10°C. Arielle Gold kicked things off, but fell attempting a frontside 1080, but Kelly Clark, the most decorated athlete in the field, has just laid down a stellar run, scoring 76.25. Remember there are three runs each, with the best run counting. 1. Gold (USA) 2. Clark (USA) 3. Thovex (France)  4. Rodriguez (France) 5. Arthur (Australia) 6. Tomita (Japan) 7. Cai (China) 8. Castellet (Spain) 9. Mastro (USA) 10. Matsumoto (Japan) 11. Liu (China) 12. Kim (USA) 02:02 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: Getting hopes up The odds of us seeing the Alpine skiing event of the Games are improving - we will still have to wait until 03:30 CET though! 01:53 Curling Mixed Doubles: Russia ahead at halfway stage At the the end of End 4 - there are eight Ends of six stones each with the final stone being referred to as the 'hammer' - OAR are 5-2 up against Norway. OAR had lost three straight coming into the bronze medal encounter and, while Anastasia Bryzgalova  did fall over one of her own stones, they are in control of the tie. Very promising, but things can change very quickly in Mixed Doubles. 01:40 Men's Alpine Combined Slalom: Skiing finally on the cards? High winds robbed us, for the time being at least, of a chance to see the men's downhill and women's giant slalom, but I'm really hoping we finally get to see some skiing later today. Unfortunately, there's no Mexican participation which means we'll have to wait a little while longer to see them bust these bad boys out! 01:30 Women's Halfpipe: Background on Kim On Day 2 of the Winter Olympics 17-year-old Red Gerard stole headlines by taking gold in the men's slopestyle final. Today fellow 17-year-old Chloe Kim is hoping to follow up a dazzling qualifying session with a jaw-dropping performance as she goes for gold. Kim was too young to compete in the Sochi Games four years ago despite scoring well enough to qualify and, talking to the Guardian, the American whizzkid made it clear she didn't begrudge the wait. “I’m actually kind of thankful that I wasn’t able to go, just knowing what I’m going through now, going into my first Olympics” she told the Guardian last month. “It’s pretty hectic, and I don’t know if my 13-year-old self would have been able to handle it.” Kim will run last in the final at the Phoenix Snow Park after qualifying with the highest score, an acceptable 95.50 out of 100!!! 01:10 Curling Mixed Doubles: History being made Canada and Switzerland will duke it out for gold later today, but getting today's action underway, Norway and OAR are competing for bronze. I'll be honest, I'm no curling buff, but watching the Round Robin sessions was incredibly enlightening andI don't think I'm the only fan the mixed doubles discipline has won at the Games. 01:00 So many highlights I'm gearing up for another late night/early morning slog and can't wait for the action to get back underway in Pyeongchang. Looking down the schedule for today, I have to say I'm eagerly anticipating what the women's halfpipe final (02:00 CET) and Chloe Kim in particular have in store for us, while Men's Alpine Combined Slalom (wind permitting at 03:30) will undoubtedly have me on the edge of my seat. A large coffee, a can of Red Bull - sugar free in case you were wondering - a fruit smoothie, cucumber sticks and quesadillas are on the menu for me tonight! So kick back, settle in and let's see what today has in store for us. 00:50 Get your shiver on! There are eight gold medals up for grabs today and, fingers crossed, the weather is expected to be more cooperative, albeit in sub-zero temperatures. 00:45 Rise and shine! Hello again! Just a few hours after the end of an eventful, and windy, day 3, we're back to Pyeongchang for another stint of Winter Olympic action. Plenty in store today, including seven medal events. Day 4 schedule highlights (Times CET): Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. Despite starting third, Laura Dahlmeier, 24, held off competitors in the Women's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint to win her first Olympic gold medal. "I have dreamed of this day for a long time. I still cannot believe it," Dahlmeier said afterwards.