Born in Tabriz, Iran, in 1963, Fariba Vafi published her first short story collection, "In Depth of the Stage," at the age of 24. Her next anthology followed in 1999, and just three years later she released her first novel, "My Bird," for which she received two Iranian literary prizes. Subsequently translated into English, Italian, German and other languages, the book helped Vafi build an international audience; while last year she won the prestigious German LiBeratur prize for her novel "Tarlan," which was originally published in 2006 and adapted into German in 2015. Yet despite her success, Vafi is most concerned by the situation in her home country, as she tells DW. Fariba Vafi reading from her book in Cologne in 2018 DW: You have published seven novels and several short story collections, received numerous prizes and most of your work has been translated into many languages. Is it important to you that your books are read and understood outside of Iran? Fariba Vafi: When you go beyond your limits and find new readers, you enter the space of people who are from another world. That, of course, influences your own work. You become acquainted with others' way of thinking, thereby gaining new knowledge. That, in my opinion, is important to any writer. Has the LiBeratur prize changed anything in terms of your recognition abroad? Of course. First and foremost, the prize was a gratifying confirmation of my work. It has led to more attention being paid to my book on the international level, but even by Iranian readers. It is also very important to me that this book has been translated into German and that people in Germany can read it. Read more: Young Afghan refugees win prize for poems on their escape to Europe The cover of the German edition of Fariba Vafi's "Tarlan," for which she received the LiBeratur Prize You are a busy writer who has published eight books in the last ten years, yet you still find time to organize workshops for women. What motivates you and what's your aim? For years I've had this need to express myself, the need to write. My aim with the workshops is not to make more people write novels. But I believe that if you can help people describe their own lives, their own world, then you have done an important job. After I organized the first workshop, I was even more motivated to continue. They gave me strength because I understood how effective literature can be for women, especially when they need to find their own creative outlet. One day you get the feeling that the time has come to write down everything you haven't been able to or couldn't express. It's compulsive. What kind of texts do the participants write? For me, it's crucial that they start from their own life experience. Only in the process of writing do you actually find out that you are writing a novel. The progress to fictionalization is slow; which is also why I believe that reading is fundamental. Therefore we study and discuss the most successful Iranian and international authors and practice reading their novels and writing side-by-side. Read more: German theologian Klaus von Stosch receives Iran's most important book prize In a country like Iran, it's difficult to separate the everyday from the political. Do you consider your work to be political? I believe that the act of writing is always a political one in a sense. As you begin to write, you are creating a space for yourself — one that probably hasn't before been provided to you, or one that might have been taken or withheld from you. Personally, I am not a political person and my field of work is not directly related to politics. But we live in a society where every simple act can have a political meaning. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qEb0 Do you write primarily for women? I do not choose my readers; it is the readers who choose me. I do not write just for women, but I admit that the vast majority of my readers are women. You live with your family in Tehran, the Iranian capital that has recently been the epicenter of violent demonstrations. What caused them in your opinion? Do you address their roots in your novel? Demonstrations can be provoked by many factors. I may deal with some of the circumstances in the book, but not in an obvious or direct way. Literature is not a newspaper, and it is not its task to report on current events. But I am always trying to find manners how to address the life and suffering of people. Read more: Iran protests: EU urges restraint, US and Israel up pressure Do you think of censorship when you're writing? On the one hand, there are several taboos in our society that we are not allowed to talk about. On the other hand, there are taboos that we create ourselves based on our lives. You can say that every published work is in some ways unfinished because it has undergone your own internalized censorship. This is, of course, an indication of the external censorship — it is one of its consequences. Is it possible to be an influential author or artist in current-day Iran? Their influence is very, very low because they cannot say anything. It is also hard for me to talk about "influential authors" because editions are very small and so is the readership. If an edition of your book does not even exceed 300 copies, what influence can you have in a country of 80 million? British author J.K. Rowling's first Harry Potter manuscript was famously turned down by about a dozen publishers before her literary agent placed her first book in the series, "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," with a small British publishing house in 1997. The books have since sold hundreds of millions of copies and have been translated into dozens of languages. Publishers told Herman Melville that his book about whaling was too long, and asked if it couldn't include "voluptuous maidens" instead of a whale... Finally published in 1851, the story of Captain Ahab's quest for the white whale was not a commercial success during the author's lifetime but is today listed as a Great American Novel. It's opening line is one of the most famous: "Call me Ishmael." This Cold War classic and international bestseller by British author John le Carré was initially rejected because the reviewer felt the writer had "no future." The spy novel was eventually published in 1963, won the Gold Dagger Award for best crime novel that year, and two years later, it was adapted into a film starring Richard Burton (picture). "Carrie," the story of a girl with telekinetic powers, was rejected 30 times before it was published in 1974. It became the first novel published by writer and high school teacher Stephen King. The paperback sold more than a million copies that first year. "Carrie" has since been adapted into films and a Broadway musical. King went on to become a best-selling author of horror stories. Several publishers returned the manuscript of Beatrix Potter's lovingly illustrated children's book about a mischievous little rabbit named Peter. In 1902, the British writer decided to self-publish the tale instead. The book has sold around 45 million copies, has been translated into dozens of languages — and is still a nursery classic to this day. William Golding's "Lord of the Flies" was turned down 20 times — with one publisher calling it "an absurd and uninteresting fantasy" — before it was published in 1954. The dystopian story about a group of school boys struggling to survive on an uninhabited island is now required reading in different high schools all over the world, and has been adapted for the screen more than once. Turned down many times, Russian-American writer Vladimir Nabokov also had a hard time finding a publisher for "Lolita." One reviewer recommended that "it be buried under a stone for a thousand years." The novel about an older professor obsessed with a young girl was finally published in France in 1955, and three years later in the US. There are now several film and stage adaptations of the work. The Civil War saga "Gone With the Wind" won author Margaret Mitchell a Pulitzer Prize in 1937, a year after it was finally printed. Before that, publishers had turned down the epic novel of more than 1,000 pages 38 times. The movie starring Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh was filmed two years later. It won eight Academy Awards. It remains one of the highest-grossing films in Hollywood ever. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach