Six months ago, things were looking pretty good for Julian Draxler. After securing the move away from Wolfsburg that he'd long been angling for, he'd become a regular in Paris Saint-Germain's version of the Galacticos, captained Germany to a Confederations Cup win and had the inside track toward a starting spot in Germany's World Cup defense in Russia. But then, at the beginning of August, the French club broke the world transfer record to sign a Brazilian from Barcelona who played in his position. Since Neymar arrived at the Parc des Princes, there's been little doubt that he's the star of the show, with 29 goals in 29 games to go along with the headline-grabbing birthday parties and public rows over penalty duties. But his arrival has been less than positive for Draxler, who has completed 90 minutes just six times for his club this season, with only a handful of cameo appearances in his favored position on the left wing. Frustrations evident After PSG's 3-1 loss to Real Madrid in the first leg of the Champions League last 16 — in which Draxler played just nine minutes — the 24-year-old let his frustrations slip to German broadcaster ZDF. “In the Bernabeu, you don’t want to watch 84 minutes from the bench but, with our squad, you don’t always get the choice,” he said. The extent of Neymar's metatarsal fracture, which he suffered in PSG's 3-0 win over Marseille on Sunday, is unclear at this stage, but it appears he'll be out for at least a month. This means he is almost certain to miss the return leg on March 6, despite PSG coach Unai Emery's suggestion there's a "small chance" he'll be ready. Draxler would surely revel in another game against a team he dismantled while playing for Wolfsburg in 2016 . However, his place is not totally assured, with Argentinians Angel di Maria or Javier Pastore among the alternatives for the Parisian club. A chance to make his mark Despite the competition, Emery, who has often tried to shoehorn the German in to a central midfield since Neymar's arrival, spoke highly of Draxler in December as rumors swirled about a switch to the Premier League. "He's in a constant evolution and he still has a lot of energy. At PSG, Draxler is in very good hands, he's a great contributor to our game, he's learning a lot," Emery said. Draxler (center, right) was part of Germany's 2014 World Cup winning squad "I talk to him a lot and I'm very demanding with him and he's one of those very ambitious players and he shows that with good performances, also for the national team, and he's a very important player for us." As Emery suggested, Draxler is a key man for Joachim Löw and his name is surely inked in to Germany's 23-man squad for Russia 2018. But, with Leroy Sané impressing for Manchester City, Julian Brandt showing flickers of form at Bayer Leverkusen and Marco Reus impressing in his latest comeback at Borussia Dortmund, Draxler needs regular playing time to find the form and fitness that would secure him a starting spot. With another crunch game against Marseille in the French Cup on Wednesday before the Madrid game and prestige international friendlies against Spain and Brazil at the end of March, Neymar's absence could offer an opportunity for PSG's half-forgotten man to restate his case. In 2014, The Uruguayan striker left Liverpool to join Lionel Messi in Barcelona for a fee of €82 euros. Being formerly known for various controversies including a biting incident at the 2014 World Cup, the Uruguayan has since primarily focussed on scoring goals. In 2015-2016 he won the European Golden Shoe. Jürgen Klopp has had his eye on him: Virgil van Dijk. The Dutch defender has moved from Southampton to Merseyside for a fee of €84.5 million - setting a new world record for a defender. After conceding 23 goals in 20 Premier League games so far, Klopp has been reminded often enough that he needs to strengthen his defense and this is the price that the club have to pay. Manchester United paid Everton €84.7 million for the Belgium international. After his move to Old Trafford, Lukaku became the most expensive striker in English history. However, Lukaku has been under heavy criticism as recent performances have fallen short of expectations. The Belgian's name has been on the scoresheet 10 times this Premier League season. Scoring 36 goals in 35 league appearances, Gonzalo Higuain had a memorable 2015-2016 season at Napoli. Italy's record champions Juventus were eager to sign the Argentinian striker, paying 90 million euros for his services. It's hardly surprising Napoli supporters were left upset over the transfer. We don't know whether Cristiano Ronaldo dislikes the fact his 94-million-euro-move from Manchester United to Real Madrid in 2009 has regressed to sixth place. Portugal's most capped player of all time remained the world's most expensive player for four years. Winning this year's Ballon d'Or may nevertheless prove a decent compensation for the Real Madrid star. Welsh superstar Gareth Bale became the world's most expensive player in 2013, being transferred to Real Madrid for a fee of €100 million after a six-year stint at Tottenham Hotspur. His move remains the most costly signing ever finalized by the Spanish club. In 2016, Manchester United's signing of French international Paul Pogba for a fee of €105 million was not only the summer's most notable transfer news - the deal also broke the world transfer record. Pogba left Juventus to return to his former club on a five-year contract but the transfer record would be broken just a year after. The 20-year-old was one of Dortmund's most exciting and promising players. So much so that only after a year of playing in Germany, Barcelona came knocking for his services. Dembele transfered to Barca for €105 million. The deal is the most expensive sale by a German club in football history. Want to talk about profit? Liverpool purchased Philippe Coutinho from Inter Milan in January 2013 for €13 million. Five years later, the English club sold the Brazilian playmaker for a reported €120 million fee (which could increase to €160 million). A pretty good turnover, right? Who could afford to buy a player for €222 million? Qatari owned French giants Paris Saint-Germain are certainly one of the very few clubs in the globe capable of it. In the summer of 2017, Brazilian star Neymar received an offer he could just not refuse from PSG. The Brazilian left Lionel Messi's shadow in Barcelona for the French capital becoming the world's most expensive footballer.