Spanish and French authorities detained three people on Tuesday in connection with last summer's terrorist attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils, which left 16 people dead and around 130 injured. The French prosecutor said the suspects had been hiding in the Gard and Tam regions in southwestern France. Read more: Cities struggle for security in light of terrorist attacks The three are being held as part of an inquiry into "attempted murder as part of a terrorist enterprise" and "criminal terrorist association," the prosecutor said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ietZ Their identities and nationalities have not been disclosed, while formal charges are still pending. The individuals are believed to have links to Moroccan national Driss Oukabir, who is suspected of having rented the van used in the rampage on Barcelona's famous Las Ramblas boulevard on August 17. Oukabir, who was arrested shortly after the attack, is currently in Spanish police custody. He faces charges of murder as well as membership of a terror organization. A day after the attack in the Catalan capital, police shot dead five people in the nearby seaside town of Cambrils. The men were stopped after they drove their van at pedestrians and officers, killing one woman. Spanish police believe that a 12-man terror cell was behind the two attacks. France's top anti-terrorism prosecutor, Francois Molins, revealed in late August that several of the suspects had been in the Paris region in the days leading up to the attacks. Molins said French authorities were trying to establish whether the attackers had been in contact with other persons of interest in France. Witnesses in Barcelona said a van zigzagged down one of city's busiest tourist avenues, Las Ramblas, mowing down pedestrians and leaving bodies strewn across the ground. Police confirmed it was a terrorist attack. Several hours later, a speeding car killed one person and injured five in the seaside resort of Cambrils. The car's five occupants were shot dead by police. Catalonian authorities have confirmed that the two attacks were linked. Police say they have arrested four men suspected of having a role in the attacks. They are still searching for the driver of the vehicle used in Barcelona. He is believed to be on the run, although officials have said he also could have been one of the five shot dead in Cambrils. The so-called "Islamic State" (IS) terror group claimed responsibility for the attacks. "The perpetrators of the Barcelona attack are soldiers of the Islamic State and carried out the operation in response to calls for targeting coalition states," the group's news agency said. Police said three of the detained suspects are Moroccan, and one is a Spaniard. None of them were known to have links to terror groups. The Catalan government said that at least 13 people had died in the Barcelona attack, with 61 still receiving treatment for injuries in hospital - 17 of them in a critical condition. Four people wounded in the Cambrils attack remain in hospital. The victims came from at least 34 countries, officials said. On Friday, thousands of people gathered around a makeshift memorial in Las Ramblas, the site where the van came to a halt. Many left flowers and candles in honor of the victims. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy announced three days of official mourning for what he called a "jihadist attack." At a news conference in Barcelona, he told reporters: "Today the fight against terrorism is the principal priority for free and open societies like ours. It is a global threat and the response has to be global." King Felipe of Spain, Prime Minister Rajoy and Catalonia Regional President Carles Puigdemont join crowds gathered for a minute of silence in Las Ramblas. Spanish authorities are also investigating the scene of an explosion late Wednesday that killed one person in the city of Alcanar, some 200 kilometers (124 miles) southwest of Barcelona. Police first thought the explosion was an accident but said Thursday they now believe an explosive device intended for use in Barcelona was being prepared in the building. Author: Rob Turner Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/rt (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)