High-profile Bahraini activist Nabeel Rajab was sentenced on Wednesday to five years in prison for posting critical comments about the government on Twitter, his lawyer and the Bahrain Center for Human Rights confirmed. Rajab was charged with "insulting a neighboring country" and "insulting national institutions" in tweets alleging prison torture in Bahrain and misconduct in Saudi Arabia's war in Yemen. The 53-year-old was already in prison for prior convictions and held in solitary confinement. Human rights groups had warned about Rajab's deteriorating health. The activist had been hospitalized multiple times in recent years over a heart problem and ulcers. Rajab's Twitter account posted that the activist arrived in court with a "cheerful smile" and raised his hands, making a peace sign after his sentence was read. In and out of jail Rajab was a leading figure in the 2011 pro-democracy protests against the ruling Sunni monarchy, when the country was swept by the regional Arab Spring protest movement. Sunnis are in a minority in the small island nation. Read more: Bahrain, human rights and the 'Islamic State' In 2012, he was sentenced to three years in prison for allegedly fomenting clashes between police and protesters in the 2011 demonstrations. Authorities released Rajab two years into his sentence, in May 2014, but the activist was again detained in June 2016 over the critical comments about torture in prisons and the Saudi-backed Yemeni war. The trial, which today ended with his 5-year prison sentence, was widely condemned internationally. Read more: Bahrain prosecution refuses to release activist Nabeel Rajab Additionally, in July 2017, Bahraini authorities put him on trial for allegedly spreading false information during interviews he gave to regional television channels, in which Rajab discussed the country's internal situation in 2015 and 2016. Representatives from the US, British, French, and German embassies in Bahrain attended Rajab's court hearing on Wednesday. US State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert had said on Tuesday, in anticipation of the sentencing, that Washington had "very serious concerns" about the case against Rajab, whom she called "a prominent human rights activist." Before his involvement in the 2011 pro-democracy demonstrations, Rajab was known for founding the Bahrain Human Rights Society and Migrant Workers Protection Group to promote better treatment of migrant laborers in Arab states. The UN has identified conflict as the "root cause" of Yemen's crises. More than 10,000 people have been killed since the conflict erupted in 2014 when Shiite Houthi rebels launched a campaign to capture the capital, Sanaa. In March 2015, a Saudi-led coalition launched a deadly campaign against the rebels, one that has been widely criticized by human rights groups for its high civilian death toll. The conflict has prevented humanitarian aid from reaching large parts of the civilian population, resulting in 60 percent of the country's 28 million people being classified as "food insecure." At least 2.2 million children are acutely malnourished, according to the UN World Food Program. UN chief Antonio Guterres has urged the Security Council to pressure warring parties to allow aid in. More than 2 million people have been displaced by conflict, including marginalized communities such as the "Muhammasheen," a minority tribe that originally migrated from Africa. Despite the civil war, many flee conflict in Somalia and head to Yemen, marking the convergence of two major migration crises in the Middle East nation. Yemen hosts more than 255,000 Somali refugees, according to UNHCR. In October, the number of suspected cholera cases exceeded more than 750,000, the WHO said. At least 2,135 people have died from the waterborne bacterial infection in Yemen this year. Although cholera can be easily treated, if left untreated, it can kill within hours. The International Committee of the Red Cross has warned that cholera cases could hit 1 million before the end of the year. In Yemen, violence goes beyond civil conflict: It is considered a strategic front in the war on terrorism. The country serves as the operational base for al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, dubbed the "most dangerous" terrorist group before the rise of the "Islamic State." The US routinely uses drones to target al-Qaida leadership. However, civilians have often been killed in the operations. In a country paralyzed by conflict, children are one of the most at-risk groups in Yemen. More than 11 million children require humanitarian aid, according to the UN humanitarian coordination agency. The country's education system is "on the brink of collapse," while children are dying of "preventable causes like malnutrition, diarrhea and respiratory tract infections," the agency said in October. Despite several attempts at UN-backed peace talks, the conflict continues to rage on. Saudi Arabia has vowed to continue supporting the internationally recognized government of Yemeni President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi. On the other hand, Houthi rebels have demanded the formation of a unity government in order to move forward on a political solution. But neither side appears ready to compromise. Author: Lewis Sanders IV jcg/rc (Reuters, AFP, AP)