North Korea has no intention of meeting US officials during the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea starting Friday, a senior North Korean official said Thursday. The announcement comes a day after US Vice President Mike Pence suggested he would be open to a meeting with North Korean officials during the event's opening ceremony. What North Korea said Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2r2b0 Why the North said this now: North Korea's ceremonial head of state, Kim Yong-Nam, and Pence are set to be at the Pyeongchang opening ceremony on Friday. Pence raised the possibility of a meeting when he said on a flight to Tokyo that he had "not requested a meeting" with North Korean officials, yet added, "but we'll see what happens." Tense 'Peace Olympics': This year's event has been billed the "Peace Olympics" after North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un agreed to send a delegation to Pyeongchang. But tensions between the North and the US, a South Korean ally, sparked by the Pyongyang's recent ballistic missile and nuclear weapons tests have cast a long shadow over the Games. Pence announced on Wednesday  the US would seek to pass new sanctions against the isolated country. Read more: UN chief calls for 'peaceful denuclearization' of Korean peninsula In August 2017, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution banning all coal, iron, iron ore and lead imports from North Korea. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf. This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier. In December 2017, a new raft of UN sanctions targeted fuel imports in North Korea, meaning its residents could have difficulties driving the country in Pyeonghwa sedans (pictured above). The sale and transfer of diesel and kerosene are limited while the import of crude oil is capped at 4 million barrels a year. UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad — at the country's Berlin embassy, for example — to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular. It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value. Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. amp/aw (AFP, Reuters)