+++ Please refresh for the latest (All times are CET) +++ Gold Medal Events Day 14 05:56 - GOLD for Russia! But it's not Medvedeva's! The drama! What an upset. Less than a point in it, but it's Zagitova who snatches gold off the world number one. The look on Medvedeva's face when she finds out... The anguish and the tears come pouring out. The gold evades her. The record score from Zagitova in the short program is what proved to be the difference as both scored the same incredible 156.65 in the free skate. Wow. That's the first time since 1998 that the same country has gone 1-2 in ladies' figure skating and it's also OAR's first gold of the Games. 05:55 - On. The. Money. Medvedeva shows the competition and the world what it is to be the best skater in the world. Technically brilliant, emotional and impressive. Is it enough for gold? Chris is right. I wouldn't want to be making the call. 05:50 - Dressed like Black Swan, Canada's Kaetlyn Osmond dances to Swan Lake and delivers a massive season's best to jump into second to bump Miyahara down into third. Now, can the number one and two-time world champion show the world why, again? Evgenia Medvedeva steps onto the ice to dance to the soundtrack from Anna Karenina. 05:42 - OH. MY. GOODNESS. Alina Zagitova is just 15-years-old and two days after setting the new world record in the short program, she delivers a 156.65 free skate score (10 better than Miyahara). It's brilliant, but not a season's best (she got that in the team event earlier on in Pyeongchang). After not taking her first jump, Zagitova reacted to the miss quickly to deliver a performance near technical perfection. She leads, but will it be gold? Mind you, I remember playing football in the back garden at 15 so the fact Zagitova is there is remarkable enough, let alone in with a chance of winning it all. Joey relates. 05:29 -  Only seven skaters in the final are over 20 years old. Two of the ladies tonight are just 15. Just think about that for a moment. An Olympic final. Mind-blowing. Japan's number two drops into third with a well choreographed performance which was perhaps better than Kostner's. Now for the record-breaker... 05:23 - Italy's Carolina Kostner delivers the second best score of the night so far, but has a look of a woman who knows that her time in the top group is all but over. She won bronze in the Singles in Sochi and has kept coming back after falls, but the 31-year-old is now surrounded by bold and brilliant teenagers. That's tough for anyone, but she leaves with a smile. 05:08 - What a start! Satoko Miyahara gets remarkable height for someone standing at just five feet tall, and that performance is very, very good and she knows it. She throws her hands into the air with joy afterwards, picks up a soft bunny wearing a handmade version of her dress and bows with joy as she records a season's best 146.44 - a huge score in the free skate by the way. Her total of 222.38 is the one to beat. Gauntlet thrown down... 05:01 - It's time for the final six, three of them will be the medalists unless something bonkers happens. OAR might well win their first gold at these Games too. If you're having trouble spotting the difference between the performance, one of the keys to look for is confidence with the jumping, the same speed coming out of the jump as coming in and how good their performance it is. In essence, are you feeling something when you're watching. Think Lionel Messi or Roger Federer on ice. 05:00 - Mirai Nagasu, aka the triple-axel queen after delivering the move in the event, seems to shy out of the favored move. Performing to Miss Saigon, the 24-year-old from California is all smiles but she finishes in fourth. 04:52 - The crowd loves a local and Choi Da-bin is South Korea's final skater of the Games I believe. To the haunting and yet magical music from the film Doctor Zhivago, the 18-year-old delivers a flawless technical performance. It's a season best of 131.49 and that means we have a new leader! A fantastic moment for her at a home Games. 04:45 - Such a tough watch when it goes wrong, figure skating. Canada's Gabrielle Daleman suffers a four-point deduction and she bursts into tears at the end of her performance. She won gold in the team event, but the Canadian national champion won't have a medal for her efforts today. Always a difficult moment to watch an Olympic athlete react to knowing they didn't deliver their best. Team Canada cheers her own. I'm sure she'll get plenty of support after this. She already has plenty online. 04:38 - Next up, another American and another mixed bag. Bradie Tennell does a lot of good things, but two trips today (after one yesterday) will frustrate the US champion. That being said, like Chen, the 20-year-old is just getting started. Cinderella music for Tennell, and despite taking second spot she might not go to the ball (the podium in this analogy). 04:29 - American Karen Chen has a couple of falls amidst some explosive jumping. She choreographs her own performances, and that one might need some reviewing. She smiles as the score comes in, but only out of the side of her mouth. Difficult moment for her, but at 18 I'm sure it won't be the last we see of her. 04:19 - Refreshed and ready? OAR's Maria Sotskova (17) gets this group started with a brilliant performance to the wonderful classical piece of Clair de Lune. A very clean skate and she takes the lead overall with 134.24 in the free skating (198.10 overall). 04:02 - The 15-minute break in between these sessions is a tricky one for those peaking through heavy eyelids. A good time of the night to get a snack or a cup of tea in, if it is the early hours of the morning where you are right now. While the tension mounts, don't forget to get in touch with us to tell us how you're enjoying the Games - or how you're staying up to be honest. Tweet us or drop us a line on Facebook! 03:50 - We finish off the second group of skaters with a personal best from Slovakia's Nicole Rajicova and decidedly disappointed Isadora Williams from Brazil. Twelve skaters to go... 03:29 - And so we turn to the other overnight medal, and that's on the ice. We are approaching halfway, and currently Elizabet Tursynbaeva from Kazakhstan is leading. Germany's Nicole Schott performs to music from the film Schindler's List. It's a very moving piece, but sadly her performance doesn't hit the same notes. 03:19 - GOLD for Canada! Kelsey Serwa gets a great start and never looked back. She goes one better than her silver in Sochi. What a race from Brittany Phelan as well. A slow start looked to have ruined her chances, but she battled back and snuck in late on to take the silver. Remarkable for a woman who swapped from Slalom in Sochi to Ski Cross in South Korea. That's another one-two for Canada in this event, their second consecutive. Dominant. Fanny Smith takes bronze. 03:15 - France's Alizee Baron wins the Small Final. It might sound like the wooden spoon race, but it's important for the rankings, funding and the sheer joy of competing in an Olympic race. 03:08 - We have our Ladies' Ski Cross finalists! Will it be more than one medal for Canada though? 03:04 - Well that's one way to do it! South Korea's Hanul Kim bucks the trend to perform to classical music and dances to an ABBA medley. Certainly a dancing queen, for now anyway... 03:00 - The first semifinal is a breeze for Sandra Naeslund (Sweden) and Fanny Smith (Switzerland). Crashes for Kennedy-Sim and Andersson make progression to the final easy for the favored pair. 02:51 - There's even a helmet camera on one of the skiers to show how crazy this sport is. I fancy a gold for Canada here, to match the one in the men's. Brittany Phelan just won her quarterfinal comfortably. Her motto, I hear, is: "Danger is real, fear is a choice." Is she wearing that on a t-shirt? If not, she might have just started something. 02:42 - Just a reminder of how brutal this sport is, with a different kind of photo-finish from our colleagues over at Eurosport. 02:37 - We are back racing in the ski cross and already on to the quarterfinals. Two crashes in the first heat, as one of the more favored riders, Austria's Andrea Limbacher slides out. Australia's Sami Kennedy-Sim wins. The Aussies have won three medals here, but no golds yet... 02:23 - Ouch. Canada's day gets worse as India Sherret hits the packed snow hard and the race has taken a break as she is stretchered off. Hope she hasn't suffered anything too serious! 02:21 - SHOCK! The defending champion in the Ladies' Ski Cross is already out! We will have a new champion. 02:18 - Also underway is the Ladies Single Skating final. After the short program the day before yesterday, today is the free skate. Around 20 skiers to get through before we get closer to knowing about who might medal, but for everyone left in the field it's a chance to be in an Olympic final and perform. Swiss Alexia Paganini makes the most of that, delivering a respectable 101.00 score for the free skate, and a total score of 156.26 (around 15th in Sochi). 02:04 - The first stages of the Ladies' Ski Cross is underway. A lot of crashes, one concussion and a broken pelvis in the men's event on Day 12. Time to find out whether the top female ski cross racers are in for the same kind of battle! 01:40 - Good morning! After the madness of yesterday, Day 14 promises a slightly quieter affair - but only on paper. The first focus of the day will be the mayhem of the ski cross - tonight is the ladies' event. Starting at the same time is the ladies single skating final. Who will star and who will slip when the pressure is on? Also, today is also the day for the men's ice hockey semifinals. Can Germany keep their incredible tournament going and beat pre-competition favorites Canada? Day 14 in Pyeongchang will provide all the answers. And don't forget, if you want to get in touch with us on Day 14 of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang: Tweet us or drop us a line on Facebook to let us know what you think of the Games so far!