German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen hailed recent European efforts to bolster military cooperation and pledged increased German defense spending in an interview with DW on Friday. Von der Leyen's comments followed her speech opening  this year's Munich Security Conference. In it, she criticized US cuts in funding to foreign aid and the United Nations. Read more: Is Europe bold enough to counter US ambivalence? What von der Leyen said: Read more: Changing Europe revives interest in an EU military NATO reacts: NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told DW he welcomed Germany's promise to increase its military budget and EU efforts to strengthen the bloc's defense cooperation. But Stoltenberg said EU cooperation was "not an alternative to NATO," but would "strengthen the European pillar within NATO." Germany will do more: Von der Leyen said in her opening speech that Germany was willing to take on more international responsibility. In addition to increased defense spending, Germany would also pay more into the United Nations budget. Read more: Eight facts about the Munich Security Conference Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2splu Europe must do more: Opening the conference with French Defense Minister Florence Parly, von der Leyen also said EU countries needed to build on the momentum of PESCO and consider a similar type of agreement for EU foreign policy decision-making. Read more: MSC chief Ischinger warns of high global danger of war Criticism of US aid cuts: The 59-year-old minister also criticized planned US spending cuts for foreign aid and the UN. "It is a point of concern to us to see that some of our partners continue to roll back spending on diplomacy, international aid and the United Nations," she said. She added that the US and European countries needed to invest in both military and non-military capabilities to tackle modern threats. With 25 of the EU's current 28 member states joining the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO), there seems to be a great deal of consensus among member states but a few remain on the fence. The new defense union is expected to address immediate threats without having to rely on NATO for all of the EU's defense needs. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker had been campaining for PESCO for several years. He expects the new military pact to deliver a "European Security and Defence Union (which) will help protect our Union, which is exactly what EU citizens expect." EU Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Chief Federica Mogherini welcomed the establishment of PESCO as the dawn of a "new era." Mogherini further described the initiative as "an inclusive framework to facilitate the joint investments and projects that we so much need to strengthen the ability of the European Union to be a credible security provider for its citizens and globally." French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen are among the chief supporters of the PESCO defense union. Von der Leyen stressed that with the United States taking a critical stance on NATO, launching Europe's very own defense initiative was "important - especially after the election of the US President," referring to Presiden Donald Trump. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg (pictured left) welcomed the launch of PESCO in the face of those fears over US President Donald Trump's commitment to the transatlantic defense alliance. Stoltenberg said that PESCO will "strengthen the European pillar within NATO" adding that it will be "good for NATO" as well. The majority of EU states signed up to PESCO. Malta still mulling over it, Denmark has opted out for the time being, and the UK is expected to reject the proposal, as it is set to leave the EU by 2019. Prime Minister Theresa May is free to join PESCO at a later date however - even after Brexit - if the terms of that cooperation would benefit the entire EU. It is unclear to what extent there will be concrete military cooperation between EU states, as is the case with the EUFOR peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The signing of PESCO initially provides only the framework for expanded collaboration and more efficient spending of military funds. Author: Sertan Sanderson amp/sms (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa)