Russia has vetoed a UN Security Council resolution that would have put pressure on Iran for failing to prevent its missiles from being used in the Yemeni conflict. The Security Council subsequently voted unanimously in favor of a resolution drafted by Russia, which omitted Iran and the findings of UN report that said Iranian-made missiles had been found in Yemen. Both resolutions were meant to renew the sanctions imposed on Yemen, which were set to expire on Monday. The original resolution that named Iran was drafted by the UK, with the consultation of the United States and France, and was based on the findings of a January report produced by a UN panel of experts. Read more: How did Yemen's Houthis obtain ballistic missiles? The panel said Iran violated the 2015 arms embargo by failing "to take the necessary measures" to prevent the direct or indirect supply of missiles and drones to Shiite Houthi rebels in Yemen. The experts examined missile remnants fired into Saudi Arabia by the Houthis last year and said many "are consistent with those of the Iranian designed and manufactured Qiam-1 missile." While the report stated that Tehran had violated the embargo by failing to block arms shipments, the experts were unable to identify the supplier. Russia has questioned the expert's report, with Russia's UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia referring to its findings as "uncorroborated conclusions and evidence which requires verification." Nebenzia added that Russia could not vote for a resolution that included such findings, as it would be "dangerous" and "escalate regional tensions." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2pgMc Iran 'categorically' rejects allegations In response to the vote, US Ambassador Nikki Haley accused Russia of shielding Iran and warned the United States would consider other ways to take action against Tehran. "Today, Russia protected the terrorist-sponsoring regime in Iran," said Haley. "If Russia is going to use its veto to block action against Iran's dangerous and destabilizing conduct, then the United States and our partners will need to take actions against Iran that the Russians cannot block." Iran's mission to the United Nations accused the US and Britain of pushing an "unwarranted draft resolution" to advance an anti-Iran political agenda and "categorically" rejected allegations of arms transfers to Yemen. Iran also referred to the UK draft resolution as an attempt to "distract" the world's attention from the "catastrophic humanitarian situation" in Yemen. Yemen has been consumed by an armed struggle between the government and the rebel Houthis since 2015. The war has been described by the United Nations as the world's worst humanitarian crisis. Read more: Yemen's forgotten war  Locals tell their stories The UN has identified conflict as the "root cause" of Yemen's crises. More than 10,000 people have been killed since the conflict erupted in 2014 when Shiite Houthi rebels launched a campaign to capture the capital, Sanaa. In March 2015, a Saudi-led coalition launched a deadly campaign against the rebels, one that has been widely criticized by human rights groups for its high civilian death toll. The conflict has prevented humanitarian aid from reaching large parts of the civilian population, resulting in 60 percent of the country's 28 million people being classified as "food insecure." At least 2.2 million children are acutely malnourished, according to the UN World Food Program. UN chief Antonio Guterres has urged the Security Council to pressure warring parties to allow aid in. More than 2 million people have been displaced by conflict, including marginalized communities such as the "Muhammasheen," a minority tribe that originally migrated from Africa. Despite the civil war, many flee conflict in Somalia and head to Yemen, marking the convergence of two major migration crises in the Middle East nation. Yemen hosts more than 255,000 Somali refugees, according to UNHCR. In October, the number of suspected cholera cases exceeded more than 750,000, the WHO said. At least 2,135 people have died from the waterborne bacterial infection in Yemen this year. Although cholera can be easily treated, if left untreated, it can kill within hours. The International Committee of the Red Cross has warned that cholera cases could hit 1 million before the end of the year. In Yemen, violence goes beyond civil conflict: It is considered a strategic front in the war on terrorism. The country serves as the operational base for al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, dubbed the "most dangerous" terrorist group before the rise of the "Islamic State." The US routinely uses drones to target al-Qaida leadership. However, civilians have often been killed in the operations. In a country paralyzed by conflict, children are one of the most at-risk groups in Yemen. More than 11 million children require humanitarian aid, according to the UN humanitarian coordination agency. The country's education system is "on the brink of collapse," while children are dying of "preventable causes like malnutrition, diarrhea and respiratory tract infections," the agency said in October. Despite several attempts at UN-backed peace talks, the conflict continues to rage on. Saudi Arabia has vowed to continue supporting the internationally recognized government of Yemeni President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi. On the other hand, Houthi rebels have demanded the formation of a unity government in order to move forward on a political solution. But neither side appears ready to compromise. Author: Lewis Sanders IV jcg/cmk (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.