Philippine presidential spokesman Harry Roque on Thursday said the International Criminal Court opened a preliminary examination into crimes against humanity allegedly committed at the behest of President Rodrigo Duterte. Roque, a former law professor, dismissed the initial probe by the court based in The Hague, saying it was "a waste of the court's time and resources." "Obviously, this is intended to embarrass the president. But the president is a lawyer; he knows what the procedures are. They will fail," said Roque. "The president has said that if need be, he will argue his case personally before the International Criminal Court." Philippine lawyer Jude Sabio filed the complaint last year. He accused Duterte of "repeatedly, unchangingly and continuously" inciting murder in the Philippines under a so-called "drug war" that has left more than 4,000 people dead since June 2016, according to police figures. Duterte and police have denied any wrongdoing. Human rights groups criticized the government for its deadly campaign that has left thousands of suspected drug users dead 'Bring the mass killings to a stop' Human rights groups have, however, warned that the death toll of Duterte's campaign against suspected drug dealers as well as drug users is likely much higher. New York-based Human Rights Watch last month said "more than 12,000 suspected drug users and dealers, mostly from poor families in urban centers across the country" have been killed in the "drug war." It noted that "unidentified gunmen" were reportedly responsible for the 8,000 other deaths not claimed by police. Read more: Will Filipinos rise up against President Rodrigo Duterte? "President Duterte has not only resisted calls to end his brutal 'drug war,' but has used populist rhetoric to disparage the brave activists who have been investigating and denouncing his cruel campaign," said Phelim Kine, HRW deputy Asia director. "Since Duterte will never undertake a serious investigation into the 'war on drugs,' it's up to the United Nations to support an international investigation and bring the mass killings to a stop." Inmates who cannot be accommodated in the prison cells sleep on the ground in the open air. At present, it's rainy season in the Philippines. And in the current tropical temperatures, it's raining almost every day. Whoever possesses a hammock should consider themselves lucky. The prison, which was built 60 years ago, has a capacity to house 800 inmates. But today there are as many as 3,800. Every nook and corner in the prison is occupied. Most of the prisoners sleep on either thin sheets or bare concrete floor. A prisoner toughens up his muscles in an exercise room. Signboards remind inmates of prison rules. The handcuffed prisoners shown here are awaiting their trial. One prisoner cleans the toilet while the others try to kill time. Only occasionally can the prisoners free themselves of sweat, filth and stench. A guard locks the gate in the evening, while the inmates get ready for another night in the overcrowded prison. Many hold newly elected President Duterte responsible for the inhumane situation. His campaign against drugs has shown no mercy. He has called on the people to kill drug addicts, which has led to an unprecedented wave of vigilantism in the Southeast Asian nation. Cases have been filed against 600,000 drug dealers and addicts so far, completely overwhelming the justice system. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen / sri ls/sms (AFP, Reuters)