UK ministers are making a series of speeches over a period of weeks as they lay out government plans for Britain's departure from the European Union (EU) currently being negotiated with a team headed by European Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier. In notes released ahead of Davis' speech in Vienna on Tuesday, the minister dismissed fears of a post-Brexit future akin to that depicted in the post-apocalyptic film franchise "Mad Max." He claimed that opponents of Brexit had touted this as a possibility. "They fear that Brexit could lead to an Anglo-Saxon race to the bottom, with Britain plunged into a 'Mad Max'-style world borrowed from dystopian fiction," said Davis. "These fears about a race to the bottom are based on nothing, not history, not intention, nor interest," the speech text continues. "But, while I profoundly disagree with them, it does remind us all that we must provide reassurance." Read more: How a hard Brexit could hurt Germany - Reckoning with the worst Davis is the 69-year-old minister heading the Department for Exiting the European Union (DExEU) made up of 600 civil servants which was set up after the 2016 referendum. Davis said Britain would continue to maintain the highest global standards. A commitment to workers' rights, financial regulation, animal welfare and the environment was also given. David Davis with Michel Barnier outside Downing Street High standards in view "The certainty that Britain's plan, its blueprint for life outside of Europe, is a race to the top in global standards, not a regression from the high standards we have now, can provide the basis of the trust," Davis said. Britain is also seeking the mutual recognition of British and European regulators: "A crucial part of any such agreement is the ability for both sides to trust each other's regulations and the institutions that enforce them," Davis' text states. Theresa May made a keynote speech at the Munich Security Conference at the weekend after meeting Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin. Questions have arisen over the nature of Britain's plans with Merkel saying she was "curious" about, but "not frustrated" with the British government's slow progress in presenting its plan for the future. Merkel also said that the bloc's remaining 27 members would be left with a "very challenging" budget hole to fill. EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April 2017 that divided the divorce talks into two phases. Phase I, in which both sides aimed to settle the basic terms of Britain's departure, started in July and ended with an agreement on "sufficient progress" in December. Officials are now holding Phase II negotiations on the post-Brexit relationship between Britain and the EU. London agreed to a formula for calculating what it owes in its "divorce bill" to the EU in early December after months of haggling by British officials. The current EU budget expires in 2022 and EU officials have said the divorce bill will cover financial obligations Britain had committed to before triggering article 50. The final bill will reportedly total around £50 billion (€67 billion). Both sides agreed in early December that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their residency rights after Brexit. British courts will have immediate jurisdiction over EU citizens living in Britain. But the EU's highest court, the ECJ, can hear cases until 2027 if British judges refer unclear cases to them. Britain and the EU also agreed in December that no border checks between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland would return post-Brexit. How feasible the commitment will be is unclear, as Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid customs checks at the Irish border. Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019. Both sides still have to hash out the details of the transition period in Phase II, including the exact end-date, whether new EU laws passed during the period will apply to Britain, and whether Britain can negotiate its own free trade deals. British officials hope to agree on the terms of the transition by March 2018. May has repeatedly said Britain will leave the European Single Market and the EU Customs Union. Leaving both could disrupt British-EU trade, but allow Britain to negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration — key demands by pro-Brexit politicians. London has said it wants to negotiate a new EU-UK trade deal during Phase II to minimize trade disruption before March 2019. Britain has also vowed to restrict EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that Single Market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. Author: Alexander Pearson Boris Johnson insists UK can leave customs union and have no hard border in Ireland British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said on Tuesday that he foresaw the UK leaving the EU customs union while maintaining frictionless trade with the bloc. Responding to a question in parliament about why he neglected to mention the Irish border issue in his major speech last week, Johnson said the government would ensure there would be no hard border in Ireland after Brexit, despite plans to leave the single market and customs union. Read more: Brexit Diaries 20: Theresa May has to square the Irish circle "There is no reason whatsoever why we should not be able to exit both the customs union and the single market, whilst maintaining frictionless trade not only north-south in Northern Ireland, but with the rest of continental Europe as well," Johnson said. "That is exactly what this government will be spelling out in the course of the coming negotiations." Johnson's comments directly contradicted EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier's position. During a visit to London earlier this month, Barnier once again stressed the EU's position that Britain would have to choose between frictionless trade and leaving the customs union. "Without a customs union ... barriers to trade and goods and services are unavoidable," he said. More speeches Other government ministers planned speeches on Tuesday: environment, food and rural affairs minister Michael Gove is to make new pledges on farming and animal welfare in Birmingham at the National Farmers’ Union annual conference. International trade minister Liam Fox addresses manufacturers in London where he is expected to promise to fight any new barriers to trade with Europe. UK opposition leader, Labour's Jeremy Corbyn is also making a speech on Tuesday. In notes released ahead of his presentation, Corbyn is expected to say: "Business needs clarity, and with two out of six of the government's 'road to Brexit' speeches already delivered, the Tories' approach to Brexit is, if anything, less clear." The Labour position on Britain after Brexit has yet to be announced. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2srIj dm, jm/rc (Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.