"It's a pity they've been relying on referencing their previous work for such a long time now," said a fan after the two-hour gig at the State Kremlin Palace in Moscow. He loved the music — as always. But none of it was really new. The very same sentiment was shared by many of the 6,000 Russians who paid roughly €35 ($43) to see the legendary electronic group from Düsseldorf on Tuesday. Read more: How Kraftwerk pioneered electronic music without computers Kraftwerk is not a rock band The concert venue was quite appropriate for the occasion: The former leader of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union Nikita Khrushchev had it built to hold meetings and congresses of the state apparatus, and the whole Kraftwerk show was a bit reminiscent of such gatherings where aging ladies and gentlemen come to listen to their idols from back in the day, who've also meanwhile reached the retirement age. The State Kremlin Palace in Moscow was built in 1961. It now serves as concert venue The audience sat deep in their seats most of the time, although in the second part of the show, when the group played their most famous hits such as "Autobahn" or "Die Roboter/The Robots," some of the spectators in the back rows got up and started making jerky "robot" movements. But most people remained seated — with 3D glasses on their faces and smartphones in their hands, uploading video snippets from the concert to social media. Read more: Kraftwerk as a Lego band There was very little excitement in the enormous, rectangular, marble-clad venue that stands just a few hundred meters from the offices of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Russian music expert Alexey Munipov described the performance as "static." "Kraftwerk do not communicate with the audience the way rock musicians do. They do not have it in their blood. Rock bands will throw things in the audience or scream, 'Can you hear me?' With Kraftwerk, everything is a pure monologue — the musicians practically don't move at all, they just wiggle once in a while behind their desks," he added. Russian influence on the electronic music pioneers Kraftwerk, who had already performed in Moscow in 2004, was never really popular in Russia, as Russians prefer rather emotional music, according to Munipov. The other way around, the band has shown its admiration for the country. Russia has had great influence on my aspects of the band's overall aesthetics, points out Munipov. The Russian avant-garde of the 1920s and the Moscow Conceptualists of the 1970s inspired the covers of several Kraftwerk albums, and the group has used slogans and words written in the Cyrillic alphabet regularly during their performances. Read more: How art made album covers iconic Kraftwerk live in Brighton, UK in 2017 Russians didn't appear impressed by the fact that the band has just won another Grammy award, this time for their live album "3-D The Catalogue.""Winning a Grammy isn't a bad thing, but Kraftwerk are way more important than a Grammy," pointed out Munipov. Last chance to see Kraftwerk? Many Russians identify with the band's critical attitude towards nuclear power. In 1975, Kraftwerk released an album called "Radio-Activity." In the wake of the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, the album and the title song of the same name were seen as prophetic by many. Read more: New German book pays tribute to the defunct but iconic cassette It was one of the topics fans were discussing as they left the concert venue. For them, Kraftwerk is simply a cult band that has always been ahead of its time. One question was on everybody's lips, however: Will Kraftwerk ever come back to Moscow? Many Russian fans believe this was their last chance to see the German band. Some of them brought their children to the concert — to experience what many believe to be a historical moment. The German electro-pop band Kraftwerk's 1974 hit song goes easy on the lyrics, which mainly consist of "We're driving, driving, driving on the autobahn…" Nevertheless, "Autobahn" did well at home and abroad and climbed the charts in many countries. It's as hypnotic as driving down a long, lonely stretch of highway - the long version goes on for more than 22 minutes. "It winds from Chicago to LA..." Nat King Cole (pictured) first recorded "Route 66" in 1946, the same year this blues standard was written - and it became a hit. Over the years, the song that follows the legendary US highway was recorded by many other musicians, including Bing Crosby, Chuck Berry, the Rolling Stones and the Manhattan Transfer. No driving song playlist would be complete without the 1972 Deep Purple classic, "Highway Star," with the line, "Nobody gonna take my car / I'm gonna race it to the ground..." Covered many times since, the song was allegedly born on a tour bus. Deep Purple fans have run a website with the name of the song since 1993 - thehighwaystar.com. Going even further back in time is the epitome of the California myth: The Beach Boys' 1964 "Fun, Fun, Fun," about a rebellious teenage girl who borrows her daddy's Ford Thunderbird. The song was made immortal with the line, "And she'll have fun, fun, fun / 'Til her daddy takes the T-bird away…. " John Denver had never actually been to West Virginia - the place he is longing for in what was to become one of his biggest hits, the 1971 track "Take Me Home, Country Roads." The lyrics were inspired by postcards of the state and the country-western classic is perfect for singing along to on long roadtrips anywhere. The American singer-songwriter died in a plane crash in 1997 and the age of 53. For many - including sensational blues rock guitarist and singer Joe Bonamassa - the car is a place to release negative emotions. In his 2016 "Drive," he sings "Let's drive / the night, into the light / Let's ride / Put on an old blues song / Let all our troubles be gone / Lets drive...." Labeled a "guitar god" by Rolling Stone magazine, Bonamassa started playing the guitar at age four. In their popular 2002 song "Cruisen," the German hip-hop group Massive Töne sings about driving around just for fun, cruising down the streets. They are the "coolest guys when they cruise through the city," they rap, ignoring the speed limit, dodging the police and checking out girls. The band started out in 1991 in Stuttgart and "Cruisen" has been one of their biggest hits. While lead singer Freddie Mercury sang about wanting to ride his bike in "Bicycle Race," it was Queen drummer Roger Taylor who wrote and performed the 1975 "I'm In love With My Car" - rock at its best from an era auto-freaks get nostalgic about. Jaguar even used the song with the opening line "The machine of a dream" in a 2004 commercial. Headed home, on a highway or a country road, in the rain: In the dreamy reflective 2012 song "Durch die Nacht" (Through the Night) Poisel is driving a friend's car through the night, heading home from Italy. The 34-year-old German singer-songwriter started playing the guitar and drums as a child. He is signed to Grönland, the label of German pop star and "Das Boot" actor Herbert Grönemeyer. Country legend Johnny Cash recorded this hilarious song in 1976, a tune about putting a Cadillac together one piece at a time - "and it wouldn't cost a dime" - by sneaking auto parts from the assembly line he worked at so he could "ride around in style." American rock musician Bruce Springsteen - nicknamed "the Boss" - has recorded numerous on-the-road songs over the many decades of his career, including the 1978 "Racing in the Street." What appears to be an ode to classic US cars actually goes much deeper, touching on identity, inner conflict and the price of adulthood. Under the pseudonym Henry Valentino, successful German composer, songwriter and producer Hans Blum sang the 1977 pop tune about an older man driving along a road, following and admiring a young woman in the car ahead of him. He muses about her youth and beauty, while she worries about the creepy guy in the fast car who won't pass. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach