When the so-called National Socialist Underground (NSU) terror cell was uncovered in November 2011, politicians and journalists asked whether this right-wing group had anything in common with Germany's left-wing Red Army Faction (RAF) terror group. Read more: Neo-Nazism: What is Germany's NSU terror trial? At first sight, this seemed like a plausible thought given that the far-right NSU and left-wing RAF both used violent means to pursue their goal of bringing about a new societal order — although their respective notions of an ideal world couldn't be more different. The NSU was driven by extreme xenophobia while RAF terrorists were inspired by Marxism. Both, however, resorted to similar actions: robberies, bombings, arson attacks and murders. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2pc4k At a recent event of the Konrad Adenauer foundation (KAS), which is affiliated to Germany's Christian Democratic Union (CDU), leading experts discussed possible parallels between the NSU, RAF and the "Islamic State" (IS). Clemens Binninger, who headed a German parliamentary NSU inquiry, Butz Peters, an expert on the RAF terror group, and Peter Neumann from King's College London, who is an authority on IS, agreed that all terrorist groups rely on a charismatic leader and the support of a broad network. Authorities failed to link the NSU cell to the murders These factors are crucial if terror cells want to go undetected for years. The NSU trio Beate Zschäpe, Uwe Böhnhardt and Uwe Mundlos went underground in 1998 and managed to go disappear off the radar until their cover was blown in 2011, when Uwe Böhnhardt and Uwe Mundlos were found dead in a mobile home. The cell's ability to go undetected for so long is largely due to the authorities' failure to link the three individuals to the murder of nine migrants — all of whom had been killed using the exact same pistol. "The security agencies didn't turn a blind eye to right-wing extremists. Instead, their thinking was too conventional," said NSU expert Binninger with regard to the failure of Germany's police and domestic intelligence service to detect the cell. Binninger says the authorities did not consider terrorist motives because nobody had claimed responsibility for the murders. In this respect, the NSU is very different to the RAF and IS. The left-wing RAF group, which in 1998 ended its 28-year-long war on a societal order it so detested, always publicly boasted with its murders. Its most shocking act was when the group kidnapped employer and industry representative Hanns-Martin Schleyer in 1977 and then killed him after keeping him captive for six weeks. The kidnapping and murder of Confederation of German Employers' Association head Hanns-Martin Schleyer was the RAF's most high-profile crime Read more: Red Army Faction: A Chronology of Terror NSU: Spreading fear without claiming responsibility for its actions IS, which in military terms is largely defeated but still commits terror attacks, similarly boasts of its actions by publishing pictures and footage of decapitated victims online. In this sense, IS and RAF are similar as both claim(ed) responsibility for their actions. The right-wing NSU cell, however, only claimed responsibly for its murders after its cover had been blown. It nevertheless succeeded in massively intimating individuals with Turkish roots living in Germany. RAF expert Peters pointed that the NSU members went underground in 1998 — the exact same year that the RAF announced its dissolution. The domestic intelligence service's report that year indicated that three right-wing terrorists had gone underground in the eastern Germany town of Jena. But it also assumed that right-wing terrorism posed no threat. How could it be so wrong? And could terrorists be detected sooner in future? With regard to Anis Amri, who carried out a terror attack on a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016, Neumann claims that German authorities made a fundamental mistake in their analysis. Given his activity as a drug dealer, they had considered him more of a petty criminal than a potential terrorist — despite reliable evidence he was planning an attack. Amri could have been stopped if it hadn't been for the sloppiness of German authorities Anis Amri could could have 'easily' been deported Binnger says that security agencies should be alert as soon as individuals go underground. NSU terrorists Zschäpe, Böhnhardt and Mundlos adopted fake identities and lived in Saxony without ever being bothered. And Islamist Amri used a whole range of aliases while criss-crossing Germany. And yet, someone like him could have easily been detected and caught, says Binninger. Not only that. "If domestic intelligence service findings and insights from local investigations had been linked, he could have easily been deported." Anri was listed as a potential threat by Germany's Joint Counter-Terrorism Center, which brings together the country's national and federal security agencies. Binninger said that in this instance, as in the case of the NSU, no single German authority had assumed responsibility. Similarly, IS specialist Neumann urged terror prevention measures to be improved given the threat of violent Salafism. He also identified deficits in information sharing in Germany and on the European level, "as the case of Amri demonstrated." Overall, said Neumann, "there will still be a jihadist threat in five years time." The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon