Participants currently taking part in a round-the-world ocean race encountered something surprising in the remote South Indian Ocean this month — a sea of microplastics. Seven ships left Alicante, Spain, in October 2017 and are racing around the world, scheduled to finish in the Netherlands in June 2018. The Volvo Ocean Race has been taking place every three years since 1973, but this year one of she ships is quite different. Named 'Turn The Tide on Plastic,' it is collecting research about microplastics in the ocean along the way. And what it has collected so far is alarming to researchers. As it left Spain and started it journey, its instruments detected a high degree of microplastics. "That was not surprising, to see a higher number of microplastics close to the coast," Sören Gutekunst, the researcher who is analyzing the samples at the Geomar Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research in the northern-German city of Kiel, told DW. "But then as it got into the Southern Indian Ocean, the increasing values were surprising." The ship detected microplastic particles at high volumes of 42 particles per cubic meter, at a latitude of 45.5 degrees south — further from land and deeper than they've ever been detected before. The findings suggest the microplastics are speading further and faster than previously thought. What are microplastics? Microplastics are plastic particles smaller than 5 millimeters, either purposefully manufactured or the result of larger plastics breaking down. They are invisible to the human eye but end up in rivers and oceans, damaging the environment. These plastics are so small they can even enter our lungs through the air we breath, and our stomachs through the food we eat. Last month, the European Commission proposed a strategy to reduce their use in the European Union by making them subject to mandatory registration. The Commission is also looking into other options to reduce their use, such as mandatory labeling, minimum requirements for product design and durability, methods to assess quantities and pathways of microplastics in the environment, and funding for targeted research and innovation. Read more: Microplastics endanger whales and sharks The biggest problem with microplastics is that they remain such a mystery. Because they are invisible to the human eye and difficult to detect, not much testing has been carried out on them. The EU wants to determine how much plastic is out there in the environment, and whether it poses a health risk to humans who might ingest it. "There is no conclusive evidence that they pose a threat to water supply, but we want to be on the safe side," said the Commission's First Vice President Frans Timmermans. "If it is established through monitoring that microplastics pose a threat, water suppliers will have to act and make sure they don't pollute tap water." New data Research on microplastics in oceans is still at a very early stage, with scientists currently able to identify only one percent of the plastic they believe is in the ocean. Because microplastics are so small, they are difficult to measure. Gutekunst said the Turn The Tide on Plastic is the first ship in the Volvo Ocean Race to be collecting this data, which will bring new information about microplastics in these remote ocean regions. Exfoliating body wash can contain micro-beads "With this information we'll have more comparable data with one single system, we can compare the Indian Ocean to the Atlantic and the Pacific," he said. "This to my knowledge has never been done in such a short period of time with the same system." The boats are currently racing from Hong Kong to New Zealand. From there they will sail across the Pacific to South America, and Gutekunst says he will be keenly watching to see if they come across the famous Pacific Garbage Patch. "We will be in the Southern Pacific so we are far away from it," he said. "But there are currents that can take it very far, and there might be the possibility that we measure low values of microplastics in very remote areas." Gutekunst hopes that by the time the boat pulls up in the Hague, it will have collected valuable information to combat the problem of plastic marine litter. While the Turn The Tide on Plastic is unlikely to win the boat race, it may help win the race to stop ocean pollution. Microplastics are defined as smaller than 5 milimeters in diameter. But these tiny particles accumulate in the sea, can enter the food chain, and are even found in the air. Personal care products containing microplastics, such as toothpaste, represent one of the most common intentional uses of microplastics in our daily lives. Some cosmetic products can contain as much plastic added as the amount of plastic in which they are packaged, experts indicate. Exfoliating daily washes very often use of microplastics, often termed "micro-beads," which then get flushed into the household wastewater stream. Via wastewater, microplastics reach the oceans, where they move enter the food chain through feeding zooplankton. In 2017, researchers found that 25 percent of marine fish tested in markets in Indonesia and California had plastic and textile fibers in their guts. Research is still lacking as to whether consuming microplastics through fish harms humans. Several studies published in 2017 showed that microplastics have also been found in sea salt from the United States, Europe and China. It's not surprising, considering how plastic debris represent between 60 to 80 percent of the total marine waste, and that up to 12 million tons of plastic waste ends up in the ocean every year. Beside microplastics in seafood like fish, shrimp and mussels, scientists point to other foods, such as honey. In the recently adopted European Union plastics strategy, honey was mentioned as one of the food products containing microplastics — to motivate a push toward a ban. Aside from micro-beads in hygiene products, synthetic textiles also release a vast amount of tiny plastic fibers into wastewater. Researchers found that a typical 6-kilogram (13-pound) washing load of acrylic-fabric items (like fluffy blankets) generates more than 700,000 individual fibers. Synthetic fabrics account for around a third of ocean microplastics. Vehicles tires are also a main source releasing microplastics into the environment. Tires are made of synthetic polymers mixed with rubber, which grinds down when used. This generates microplastics that are either blown around by the wind or washed away by rain. Norwegian and Swedish researchers agree that a large proporation of particles found in the sea come from car tires. Microplastics have also been found in tap water. In an analysis of tap water samples from countries around the world, more than 80 percent were contaminated with some amount of plastic fibers. If synthetic fibers are in tap water, they are also likely to be in a number of other basic foodstuffs, like bread. And yes, if tap water contains microplastics, beer could very well also be contaminated. A 2014 study found plastic particles in a total of 24 German beers - but variability in the results was high, and further research would needed for verification, the German Environment Agency has pointed out. In any case, cheers for now. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz