The Berlin Wall sliced up its city, dividing East from West, for 28 years, two months and 27 days. Monday marks a turning point: for the first time, the wall has been gone for as long as it stood. Its construction in 1961, designed to stem the flow of East Germans fleeing over the Berlin border, forced would-be escapees to come up with more creative methods to make it to the West. Some enlisted the help of sympathetic West Berliners to try to cross over where nobody would see them: underground. A woman emerges from an escape tunnel in West Berlin in 1964. It is estimated that about 75 tunnels were dug underneath the Berlin Wall. An archaeologist recently found the entrance of one such tunnel near the city's Mauerpark. Its rediscovery has unearthed the story of a man whose committed opposition to the wall began with this underground passage to the East. Painstaking progress "You couldn't just shovel away at this kind of soil — you had to really scrape your way through," says Carl-Wolfgang Holzapfel. "That's what made it so difficult and frustrating. Sometimes you had the feeling you weren't getting anywhere at all." In 1963, the then 19-year-old West Berliner, along with a group of friends, started burrowing underneath a disused warehouse in the Wedding district of the city. Their aim was to reach a basement 80 meters (262 feet) away, on the eastern side of the wall, so that Gerhard Weinstein, an acquaintance of Holzapfel's, could escape to the West and be reunited with his young daughter. Carl-Wolfgang Holzapfel at the site where the western entrance to the tunnel has recently been rediscovered. After four months of painstaking work, news of the group's endeavor reached the Stasi (the East German state security service). Weinstein and another 20 people on the eastern side who had been planning to escape via the tunnel were all detained. Holzapfel did not hear from them again. It was a bitter disappointment, but 73-year-old Holzapfel insists his group's efforts were not entirely in vain. "It was a reminder that there will always be people who will fight against injustice, and who will find ways to erode that injustice," he told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2hpo7 Taking on the wall For Holzapfel, the tunnel marked the beginning of a struggle that would last nearly three decades. "At 17 I told myself: You're going to fight against this wall — because it is unjust — until you see it come down or until it outlives you," he recalls. Carl-Wolfgang Holzapfel began protesting against German separation at the age of 17. In 1965 he was arrested during a peaceful demonstration at the Berlin border crossing known as Checkpoint Charlie. He spent nine months in the infamous Stasi prison at Hohenschönhausen. After his release, he continued to protest and remained resolute in his conviction that he would see a reunified Germany again. On the 28th anniversary of the wall being built, Holzapfel made perhaps his most symbolic act of protest. "I thought: now I need to do something to clearly show the madness of dividing a city." 'One body' Bridging the East-West divide in an unconventional manner Holzapfel draped himself in the German flag and tied a thick white band around his waist. As he lay down on the ground at Checkpoint Charlie — heart and head in the East, feet in the West — the white line marking the border appeared to run over his body. "Just as I am obviously one body," he explains, "Berlin is a whole, and Germany is a whole." Less than three months later, on November 9, 1989, the Berlin Wall fell. The next day, Holzapfel stood where East and West met at the city's Potsdamer Platz. "I was in tears," he recalls. "There is nothing better — nothing will ever top that feeling." Plans are in motion to preserve Holzapfel's escape tunnel and integrate it into the official Berlin Wall Memorial. For him, returning to the site of the tunnel's entrance has been a moving experience. "But it's not just my own story," he adds. "It's a piece of Berlin's history." At 1316 meters along the River Spree, the longest remaining stretch of the Wall is the world's longest open-air gallery. Painted in 1990 by artists from around the globe, it illustrates personal destinies, wishes and dreams. 101 large-format pictures show the way to freedom and the joy at the fall of the Wall. The East Side Gallery was completely restored in 2009. Nowhere is the former "death strip" as vivid as it is here. An 80-meter-long segment of the Wall, including a guard tower, has been reconstructed. The authentic border fortification complex serves as a central monument to the division of Germany. It pays homage to the victims who died or were killed at the Berlin Wall. The Berlin Wall has disappeared almost everywhere in the city. East and West have now grown together. In the city center a strip of cobblestones marks where the Wall used to run. This border crossing is among the best-known sights in Berlin. Only foreigners and diplomats were allowed to pass through this checkpoint. In October 1961, shortly after the Wall was built, there was a standoff here as armed Soviet and American tanks stood face-to-face. The situation very nearly escalated. It was a place of tearful farewells. Hundreds of people crossed this border post at Friedrichstrasse station when leaving East Germany for West Berlin. The former departure terminal now serves as a reminder of the forced separation of friends and families. Visitors can walk through an original cubicle where passports were checked and relive the border clearance procedure for themselves. This former Stasi prison has been a memorial to the victims of communist dictatorship since 1994. Visitors are informed about the detention conditions and interrogation methods in communist East Germany. Former inmates lead the guided tours. After World War II, this area was used to deposit debris. Rubble from the war was collected to form the Teufelsberg, the highest elevation in West Berlin. During the Cold War, the US National Security Agency used the hill as a listening station. From here, military radio signals from the Warsaw Pact countries could be intercepted, monitored and jammed. You might imagine that the exchange of captured spies only took place on the silver screen, but this bridge between Berlin and Potsdam was actually the scene of three such operations. Steven Spielberg used this historic place as a setting in his feature film "Bridge of Spies." This interactive museum right near Potsdamer Platz takes visitors into the world of espionage. Special emphasis is placed on activities in Berlin during the Cold War. Among the more than 300 exhibits is an East German Trabant car with infrared cameras hidden in its doors. The Berlin Wall Trail follows the path of the former division of the city and covers some 160 kilometers. The Japanese donated some 10,000 cherry trees "to bring peace in the hearts of the people." They were planted in different sections of the former Wall. This avenue is right by Bösebrücke, the first crossing to open on the day the Wall came down. Author: Philipp Falkenstein (ms)