Elephants are fascinating creatures. They are Earth's biggest land animals but their closest land-dwelling relatives are hyraxes, furry little creatures that look more like marmots and are smaller than your average house cat. As children, we learn that there are African elephants and Asian elephants and that you can tell them apart simply by looking at their ears. The African varieties have bigger ears than their Asian counterparts. What we often don't learn at school, however, is that there exist many more differences between the two kinds of pachyderms. How many species? The hyrax. Yes, that's the closest land-dwelling relative elephants have! To be exact, there are in fact three and not two species of elephant. Two live in Africa and one lives in Asia. Initially, the African forest elephant (Loxodonta cyclotis) was considered a subspecies of the bigger and better known African bush elephant (Loxodonta africana). Genetic testing confirmed in 2010 that the two are actually distinct, with the forest elephant being more closely related to the extinct European straight-tusked elephant (Palaeoloxodon antiquus) than its well known savannah-dwelling cousin. For their part, Asian elephants can be broken down into three subspecies. African forest elephants are the smallest of the three species. They were first confirmed as a separate species in 2010 Ear today But before things get too confusing, let's return to the question of ears. For elephants, these organs aren't just useful for hearing nor are they merely elaborate fly swatters. They are essential for the creature's survival. That's because the giant animals lack an ability that we take for granted (even if we sometimes find it icky): They cannot sweat. So how do they keep their body temperatures down in the blazing tropical sun? Firstly, they might try to cool off in the water and, when that's not an option, they use their ears. Elephant trunks are incredibly versatile — and they have 'fingers' for grasping at the end These large flaps contain many blood vessels, which allow them to act as heat exchangers. As the blood flows through the ears, just below the skin, it cools, thus lowering the elephant's temperature. How many fingers? All elephants have the characteristic long trunk, which they use for everything from breathing and drinking to dusting, washing, making sounds and even fighting. The trunk contains tens of thousands of distinct muscles that allow the animals to lift items weighing hundreds of kilos. At the same time, elephant trunks are more sensitive than human fingers. The finger-like extensions at the end of each trunk can perform very delicate tasks like cracking a peanut shell without breaking the seed inside. All that holds true for the three elephant species, but there is one notable difference. African elephants have two such extensions at the tip of their trunks, while the Asian species has only one. There are other subtle anatomical differences beyond size too. For instance, African elephants have 21 pairs of ribs, whereas Asian elephants have 19 or 20 pairs. When you see an elephant without tusks you can be pretty sure it's a female Asian elephant It's all about the tusks Perhaps the most obvious difference between African and Asian elephants — besides the ears — lies in their tusks. These pointy, prominent second incisors in the animal's upper jaws are one of the main reasons they are hunted and killed by humans. Elephants on both continents have tusks. But female Asian elephants tend to have either very small ones or none at all. And just as humans are left- or right-handed, elephants are left- or right-tusked. Usually it's easy to spot, which one is the dominant tusk. It's the one that's more worn down from constant use.  A century ago, 10 million elephants were roaming across Africa - today, there are an estimated 450,000 to 700,000 African elephants and between 35,000 and 40,000 wild Asian elephants. Since elephant numbers have dropped by 62 percent over the last decade, conservationists fear they could be almost extinct in the next 10 years. Every day, around 100 African elephants are killed for their tusks, which end up being sold mainly on the Asian market. In the past five years, Chinese demand for ivory has gone up, which fueled poaching even more. In July, customs officials at Zurich airport seized 262 kilograms (578 pounds) of ivory chopped up and hidden in eight suitcases during a random search on three Chinese passengers. Wildlife trafficking has been estimated to be the third biggest illegal business after drug and human trafficking. Illegal ivory boosts all kind of conflicts across the continent. For example, insurgent groups like Al-Shabab, the Lord's Resistance Army and Boko Haram buy weapons by handing in elephant tusks. A pound of ivory sells for about $1,000 (903 euros) on the Chinese black market. Despite a ban on international ivory trade, elephants are still being targeted in large numbers. Organizations like SOS Elephants say it's crucial to teach local communities about why elephants are important for Africa's ecosystem and how they can make a living through ecotourism and coexisting farming techniques instead. In addition to poaching, elephants are also struggling with dwindling habitat. Human populations have vastly increased since the turn of the century, meaning there's less space for elephants: Forests have been cleared and turned into land for crops or livestock. And some of the animals have been captured, trained and used for activities such as illegal logging. At the end of July 2015, US President Barack Obama announced plans to effectively ban most ivory trade in the United States and to add new restrictions when it could be exported. The US is the second biggest market for ivory after China which has also pledged to clamp down on ivory trade on its domestic markets. Author: Claudia Garcia