The Norwegian Olympic team's breakfast order went sunny side up after it was delivered 15,000 eggs — 10 times the number it ordered. The team chefs blamed a translation error for the massive delivery. They thought they were ordering 1,500 eggs from a local distributor in Pyeongchang, which is hosting the 2018 Winter Games, but ended up ordering thousands more after using of Google Translate to render the order into Korean. Read more: South Korea's 'peace Olympics' fail to please all "The eggs were more like a misunderstanding than something that we needed. It was an extra zero on the order, so 1,500 to 15,000," Norwegian chef de mission Tore Ovrebo said. Ovrebo struggled to suggest what the team would do with the eggs. But he did not rule out finding ways for the team to consume them, which means each person in the 121-member delegation would have to eat 124 eggs during the 17-day event. "They will probably use them, I guess," Ovrebo said. "Maybe the people that supplied us with them will take them back I don't know. It's not a big issue." However, one of the team chefs later told a Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten they were able to return the excess eggs, ensuring the players and officials did not have to endure a rather limited menu. The incident took place last week but only now has attracted international attention. ap/sms (Reuters, AP) The Games in South Korea will require less travel than at Sochi four years ago. Any competitions on skis, plus the bob and luge, will take place in the Pyeongchang Mountain Cluster. The disciplines on ice be staged around 35 kilometers to the east in Gangneung Coastal Cluster. Pyeongchang is a small city of around 10,000, roughly 180 kilometers east of the capital Seoul. Alepnsia is a winter sports resort built especially for the Gangwon province's 2010 bid for the Winter Olympics. It cost in the region of €1 billion ($1.25 billion). Alpensia is host to the sliding events (bobsled, luge and skeleton), biathlon, cross-country skiing and sk jumping centers. The resort was built on what used to arable land, primarily potato fields. Might top German ski-jumper Richard Freitag leap to a medal off these ramps? If the spectator stands look a familiar shape to you, there's a reason for the that. The landing zone stands are more typically used for football games involving Gangwon FC. It's one of the signs that the organizers have spared a thought for the sustainability and future of the venues. The courses for cross-country skiers, winter biathletes and Nodic combined competitors snake around the 7,500-seater ski jumping stadium, thorough the forested hills. Although the peaks and troughs are not that steep, the wind could prove a real issue for the athletes, especially when shooting. Close to the coast and 700 meters above sea level, heavy winds often blow in from the Sea of Japan. The ice track for the bob and skeleton riders can accommodate 7,000 spectators. German luge coach Norbert Loch estimates that peak speeds of around 130 km/h (81 mph) will be possible. Three-time Olympic luge winner Felix Loch describes the course as follows: "An interesting track, which will definitely be good fun. The phase around turns 8 and 9 will be decisive." The Olympic Stadium is also located in the Alpensia resort. It's a temporary stadium designed for the opening and closing ceremonies. It can accommodate 35,000. At a cost of over €100 million, it's a costly temporary fixture. It's slated for deconstruction after the Games, as no subsequent use for it could be found. Alpine skiing events will take place at two venues: speed events (downhill and Super-G) at the Jeongseon Alpine Center and technical disciplines (slalom, grand slalom and team events) at the Yongpyong Alpine Center, roughly half an hour's drive away. Snowboarders and freestyle skiers will compete at the Phoenix Snow Park in Yongpyong. For the host nation, it's the ice events more than the skiing that offer real medal hopes. South Korea is especially favored to fare well in the figure skating and short track speed skating. Both those events will take place in the all-new Gangneung Ice Arena. It offers space for 12,000 spectators and, according to the organizer, boasts an environmentally-friendly cooling system. Expect a strong contingent of fans from the Netherlands, speed skating's dominant power, in the Gangneung Oval seats. The arena has a 400-meter track and space for 8,000 people. It was opened in February 2017 for the World Single Distance Championships. Dutch skaters won all five of the men's titles in that event, and one of the five for women. This is the principle of the two ice hockey venues for the 2018 Games. All the men's games and all the medal games will be played here. The women will play their earlier matches at the Kwandong Hockey Center. This four-floor stadium is estimated to have cost around €100 million. Whether it will remain in use afterwards is not clear. While South Koreans do play ice hockey, it's a big house to fill. The logo, like the name, gives the game away. This is where the curling stones will glide and the brushes will furiously sweep a path for them. But you won't see German athletes in here, unless they've come as spectators. For the first time since its Olympic adoption in 1998, no German curling team has qualified for the Games. A few more high-rises than you'd see in the average village. As with many previous Games, accommodation for the athletes was built from scratch. There's one Olympic Village in Pyeongchang (pictured here) and another in Gangneung. As well as the bedrooms, the athletes and coaches have shared kitchens, canteens, living rooms and conference rooms and more besides. The bedrooms have a bit of a youth hostel feel to them. They're sparsely furnished and at such a size, getting the right roommate (with the right amount of equipment and luggage) could be crucial. Nevertheless, the bedding is obviously supposed to remind the athletes why they've come. Author: Sarah Wiertz