Woolwich Crown Court in south London on Friday sentenced Darren Osborne to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 43 years for the murder of a 51-year-old man and injuring nine others in a late-night attack in June. Judge Bobbie Cheema-Grubb said Osborne's mind had been "poisoned" by far-right ideas as she sentenced the 48-year-old to life with no chance of parole for 43 years. Makram Ali died after his legs were crushed under the van in the Finsbury Park area of north London in the attack on June 19. Osborne, from Cardiff, was convicted of terrorism-related murder and attempted murder for driving a van at high speed into a crowd of people near the Finsbury Park Mosque. He denied the charges. Read more: British Muslims seek to combat extremism "From our investigation, it was clear that Osborne had planned to come to London with the intention of carrying out an attack against the Muslim community," Metropolitan Police Commander Dean Haydon said. Sue Hemming, head of counter-terrorism for the Crown Prosecution Service, said prosecutors had been "clear throughout that this was a terrorist attack." "Darren Osborne planned and carried out this attack because of his hatred of Muslims," Hemming said. "He later invented an unconvincing story to counter the overwhelming weight of evidence, but the jury has convicted him." Police said they were called at 12:20 am (22:20 UTC) to reports of a crash at Seven Sisters Road, which runs through the Finsbury Park area in North London. One man was pronounced dead at the scene, according to a police statement. Ten others were hurt in the incident. A police statement confirmed a 48-year-old suspect has been arrested. At least two witnesses told Sky News there were three men in the van. The Metropolitan Police have confirmed the Counter Terrorism Command Unit is investigating the incident. Prime Minister Theresa May said the incident "is being treated as a potential terrorist attack." Local people were seen observing prayers early Monday morning after the incident. The Muslim Council of Britain released a statement on Twitter calling the incident "the most violent manifestation to date" of Islamophobia. Author: Davis VanOpdorp jbh (dpa, AP, AFP)