Pakistani authorities can heave a sigh of relief as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) did not place their country on a so-called "gray list" of nations that are not doing enough to combat terrorism financing. However, the Islamic country is not completely off the hook. According to a Pakistani government official, the South Asian nation could be officially placed on the FATF watchlist in June at its next meeting. The FATF "gray list" list now features nine countries - Ethiopia, Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Serbia, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu and Tunisia. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been shifted to the "white list." Pakistan remained on the list from 2012 to 2015. Western pressure to crack down US President Donald Trump has increased pressure on Pakistan to crack down on Islamist militants who launch attacks on NATO and Afghan troops inside Afghanistan. The US spent the past week lobbying member countries of the FATF to place Pakistan on the list of countries that pose a risk to the international financial system. Germany, Britain and France backed the move in a week-long FATF meeting in Paris that concluded Friday. While Pakistan managed to get a three-month reprieve from the international grouping, media reports claim that Washington managed to get a second vote on its Pakistan motion on Thursday. 'The US is increasing pressure on Pakistan's army, not on the civilian government,' says analyst Khalid Farooqi "Adviser to the Prime Minister on Finance Miftah Ismail, who has been leading Pakistan's diplomacy to defeat the motion sponsored by the US, went on air to confirm that the motion had indeed passed. This happened following an extraordinary second vote that the US managed to arrange on Thursday night, two days after the motion had been defeated in the first round of discussion," Pakistan's Dawn newspaper quoted a top Pakistani official as saying in a Saturday report. 'Gray listing' "Pakistan is now set to be 'gray listed' by FATF in June, meaning its financial system will be designated a risk to the international financial system because of 'strategic deficiencies' in its ability to prevent terror financing and money laundering," said Dawn's report, adding that the Pakistani government "will work with FATF to build an 'action plan' to plug the deficiencies identified by the watchdog, which will be put up for approval by consensus in the June session....After that, implementation of the plan will begin, monitored by the Asia Pacific Group, a part of the global FATF network." Failure to comply with FATF demands could see Pakistan "blacklisted," a status currently applied to Iran and North Korea only. Ahsan Iqbal, Pakistan's interior minister, said Saturday that the government would "expedite steps to curb terror financing and money laundering." Read more: 'Trump administration has zero patience for Pakistan's terror policy' US  suspends 'security assistance' to Pakistan after Donald Trump calls it terrorist 'haven' White House 'holding Pakistan accountable' Last year, Trump announced an aggressive Afghanistan strategy, which identifies Pakistan as a "problem" rather than a "partner" in the war against terror. "We've seen modest progress in terms of Pakistan's actual acknowledgement of these (US) concerns but the president is not satisfied with progress when it comes to Pakistan," said White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah. "We have restored some clarity in our relationship with Pakistan. For the first time we're holding Pakistan accountable for its actions." In his first 2018 tweet, Trump lashed out at Pakistan: "The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years, and they have given us nothing but lies & deceit, thinking of our leaders as fools. They give safe haven to the terrorists we hunt in Afghanistan, with little help. No more!," wrote Trump. Read more: What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about? Reuters news agency quoted Acting Assistant Secretary of State Alice Wells as saying that the US effort to have Pakistan put on the list was partly due to the Islamic country's failure to act against Hafiz Saeed, whose Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD)/Lashkar-e-Taiba organization are accused of orchestrating the deadly 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people. "When we saw terrorists like Hafiz Saeed be released for the sixth time from house arrest or saw charitable arms of Lashkar-e-Taiba or Jaish-i-Mohammad operate freely, sometimes in front of police stations doing fund-raising exercises, it obviously raises serious concerns," Wells said in an interview. The Trump administration has already reduced Pakistan's military aid. In January, the White House said it would continue to withhold $255 million (€211 million) in military aid for Pakistan due to its frustration with the nation's reluctance to dismantle terrorist networks on its soil. In August last year, the administration temporarily withheld the money, which was part of a Congress-approved $1.1 billion (900 million euros) aid package for Pakistan. Read more: Husain Haqqani: ' 
US  will no longer ignore Pakistan's militant support' Donald Trump's Afghanistan strategy raises the stakes Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2k6po Repercussions for Pakistan Khalid Hameed Farooqi, a Brussels-based senior Pakistani journalist and diplomatic affairs analyst, says the three-month reprieve from FATF is the "last chance for Pakistan." "Islamabad has no other option but to act against militants. But let me be clear about one thing: the international community is demanding Pakistan's security establishment to put things in order; the civilian administration is not being admonished in this case," Farooqi said, adding that the elected government, for the past few years, had taken several legislative actions to rein in Islamists, but the country's powerful military continued to back some proxy jihadist groups. "Last year, the Pakistani government had sent several top diplomats to Washington, Paris and Brussels, to highlight Indian atrocities in Kashmir. But the officials in these Western capitals clearly told them to act against Hafiz Saeed first," underlined Farooqi. Former Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif (R) favored better ties with regional rival India While Turkey supported Pakistan at the FATF Paris conference, Farooqi is of the view that neither Turkey nor Russia could bail Pakistan out for long. "Ankara and Moscow do not have the economic clout. Beijing has supported Islamabad on many international forums. But to avoid the FATF 'gray list,' Pakistan needs support of four members, which it doesn't have," said Farooqi. Read more: Why Pakistan shouldn't rely on China in wake of US aid cut Islamabad heavily depends on global institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) – both under US influence – to keep its economy running. The US administration could increase financial pressure on Pakistan to force Pakistan to comply with its demands. "The US can [also] take away Pakistan's non-NATO ally status. Pakistan also needs financial aid and Washington has great influence over the international monetary institutions. It could ask them not to grant loans to Pakistan," Ashraf Jehangir Qazi, Pakistan's former ambassador to the US, told DW. Although China is heavily investing in Pakistan's infrastructure as part of its multi billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative, its military aid to Pakistan is in no way close to what Washington has been offering for decades. Read more: China's 'betrayal' - BRICS leaders slam Pakistan-based jihadi groups Pakistan's concerns Despite the present mistrust between the two countries, US-Pakistani ties are unlikely to break down completely. History tells us that Pakistani authorities have maintained a minimum level of cooperation with Washington. At the same time, only a one-sided assessment would put the blame of the US "failure" in Afghanistan on Pakistan. Former US President Barack Obama had acknowledged Islamabad's cooperation in a number of security areas, mainly in the defeat of al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Experts say the Trump administration has to take Pakistan's reservations about the growing US-India ties into account if it is genuinely interested in resolving the militancy issue in the region. Pakistan has fought four wars against India and continues to see the rising economic and military power in its neighborhood as a threat. Islamabad is very skeptical about New Delhi's increased role in Afghanistan and experts say the military's security polices, as well as the alleged support for some jihadist groups, are completely India-centric. The Haqqani Network was formed by Jalaluddin Haqqani, who fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s. At the time, the mujahideen (Islamic fighters) enjoyed the US backing. In 1995, the Haqqani Network allied with the Taliban and the two groups captured the Afghan capital Kabul in 1996. In 2012, the US designated the group a terrorist organization. Jalaluddin Haqqani was born in 1939 in the Afghan province Paktia. He studied at Darul Uloom Haqqania, which was founded in 1947 by the father of one of Pakistan's most prominent religious leaders, Maulana Sami ul Haq. Darul Uloom Haqqania is known for its alleged ties with the Taliban and other extremist groups. Jalaluddin was made minister for Afghan tribal affairs under the Taliban rule. He remained in the post until the US toppled the Taliban regime in 2001. After the Taliban leader Mullah Omar, Jalaluddin was considered the most influential militant figure in Afghanistan. Jalaluddin also had close links with the former al Qaeda leader, Osama bin Laden. Security experts say the command center of the group is based in the Miranshah city of Pakistan's North Waziristan region along the Afghan border. US and Afghan officials claim the Haqqani Network is backed by the Pakistani military, a charge denied by Pakistani authorities. Washington says the group's fighters launch attacks on foreign and local troops and civilians inside Afghanistan. It is believed that Jalaluddin Haqqani had died in 2015, but his group denied those reports at the time. The network is now headed by Sirajuddin Haqqani, Jalaluddin's son. Sirajuddin is also the deputy chief of the Taliban. Although there isn't much credible information available about Sirajuddin Haqqani, security experts say he spent his childhood in the Pakistani city of Miranshah. He studied at Darul Uloom Haqqania, situated in Peshawar's suburbs. Sirajuddin is believed to be an expert on military affairs. Some analysts say Sirajuddin's views are more hardline than his father's. One of Jalaluddin's sons is Anas Haqqani, whose mother hailed from the United Arab Emirates. He is currently in custody of the Afghan government and is facing death penalty. The Haqqani Network has warned Kabul of dire consequences if Afghan authorities hanged Anas Haqqani. Research institutes and Afghan affairs experts say the group has between three and ten thousand fighters. The network allegedly receives most of its funding from the Gulf countries. The Haqqani Network is also involved in kidnappings and extortions through which it funds its operations. The Haqqanis have close relations with other regional and international terrorist organizations such as al Qaeda, the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Lashkar-e-Taiba and Central Asian Islamist groups. Jalauddin Haqqani was not only close to bin Laden, but also had ties with al Qaeda's current chief Ayman al-Zawahiri. Author: Atif Baloch Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.