The British newspaper The Telegraph places Igor Levit "in a class of his own," and Germany's weekly Die Zeit declares, "Wherever he plays, people leave the hall astonished." "Listening to Levit is a breathtaking experience," claims Switzerland's Neue Zürcher Zeitung newspaper. And Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung adds: "This young man doesn't just have what it takes to become one of the greatest pianists of the century. He already is!" In this Concert Hour and the next, Levit focuses on the composer and pianist Ferruccio Busoni, who in the early 20th century transcribed a number of Bach's works for piano. Some of Busoni's own music sounds quite different however, and Igor Levit explained why in an interview with DW: "Busoni was all about freedom. He said — and I couldn't agree more with him — that music is free. It exists between us, basically in the air. And no one should ever say: 'This is the way to do it.' Everyone has his own way, with no limits, to experience and to make music. So what I think he does is with the greatest respect and admiration for the great Johann Sebastian Bach: he basically takes Bach's material and liberates it." In another Beethovenfest concert, Igor Levit is joined by Isang Enders. Of German-Korean background, the 29-year-old cellist became the youngest section leader in an orchestra in Germany nine years ago when he was named cello chair of the Dresden Staatskappelle. "Isang Enders has given me the greatest pride in his development as a young artist, colleague and musician," writes his onetime mentor, the cellist Lynn Harell. "In a warm, human and infectious way, he imparts his love of music." Ferruccio Busoni Fantasy after Johann Sebastian Bach, BV 253 Johann Sebastian Bach Ricercar à 3 from "A Musical Offering," BWV 1079 Johann Kaspar Kerll Passacaglia in D Minor Dmitry Shostakovich Sonata in D Minor for cello and piano, op. 40, 3rd movement Ludwig van Beethoven Sonata No. 3 in A Major for cello and piano, op. 69, 1st and 2nd movements performed by: Isang Enders, cello Igor Levit, piano Recorded by Deutschlandfunk Radio, Cologne (DLF) in the Church of the Cross in Bonn on September 30, 2017