French authorities have charged Swiss Islamic scholar Tariq Ramadan with alleged rape, judicial officials said Friday. Police arrested Ramadan in Paris on Wednesday as part of a preliminary investigation into the accusations he had raped two women — one in Lyon in 2009 and the other in Paris in 2012. Friday's charges are preliminary and prompt a full investigation into the cases. Ramadan faces indictment and a trial if police find enough evidence to support the charges. Read more: Islam scholar Tariq Ramadan 'held' in Paris over rape allegations Wake of Weinstein Both of the accusers came forward in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal that saw an uptick in the number of women publically speaking out about sexual abuse. He has denied the allegations and vowed to sue both women for slander. The 55-year-old professor of contemporary Islamic studies agreed to take a leave of absence from Oxford University in November after the allegations emerged. Read more: France logs increase in sex crime reports following Harvey Weinstein scandal 'Campaign of lies' Four women in Switzerland have also accused Ramadan of molesting them when they were teenagers in the 1980s and '90s. He has described the allegations as "a campaign of lies launched by my adversaries." The case has divided Ramadan's Muslim followers, some of whom have accused his accusers of a smear campaign. The prominent scholar is the grandson of Hasan al-Banna, the Islamic thinker who founded Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood. Among the signatories of the open letter was Oscar-nominated French star Catherine Deneuve. Already known for her controversial stance toward harassment, Deneuve has said she finds the #MeToo and #BalanceTonPorc social media actions "excessive." That's after she expressed her support for director Roman Polanski, who is still wanted in the US for the statutory rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977. Modern art expert and editor-in-chief of the magazine Art Press, Catherine Millet was also among the signatories who wrote, "Rape is a crime, but trying to seduce someone, even persistently or cack-handedly, is not — nor is men being gentlemanly a macho attack." Millet is perhaps best known for her book, "The Sexual Life of Catherine M.," a memoir tracing her 30 years in France's swinger scene. German-born Chanson singer, Ingrid Caven, added her name to the open letter, which claims that the protest's legitimacy has turned into a "witch-hunt." "Instead of helping women, this frenzy (...) actually helps the enemies of sexual liberty — religious extremists and the worst sort of reactionaries. As women, we do not recognize ourselves in this feminism." A radio talk show host who got her start in the porn industry in 1976, just a year after it was legalized, Brigitte Lahaie signed the letter, which speaks of a "purifying wave" that knows no limit. "(T)he human being is not monolithic: a woman can in the same day lead a professional team and enjoy being the sexual object of a man without being a 'slut' nor a vile accomplice of the patriarchy." France's version of #MeToo is #BalanceTonPorc, or "call out your pig." Created by NY-based French journalist Sandra Muller, it essentially invites people to name names — and that involves legal risks. Muller herself was asked by lawyers to delete a tweet in which she named a French executive who had said offensive remarks. Prominent feminists quickly responded to the letter signed by Deneuve, saying that it blurred the line between seduction and harassment and in doing so, harmed the "millions of women who suffer from this abuse." Former presidential candidate Ségolène Royal took to Twitter to express her dismay, saying, "It's too bad that our great Catherine Deneuve has signed on to this disconcerting text." Among the women who have accused Harvey Weinstein of inappropriate behavior is French actress Emma De Caunes. De Caunes said she had met Weinstein for lunch at a Paris Hotel in 2010. She was invited to his hotel room to discuss a project but after he walked out of his bathroom naked with an erection, Caunes fled. "It was like a hunter with a wild animal," she said. "The fear turns him on." In October, actress Florence Darel also came out as having been sexually harassed by Harvey Weinstein, telling People magazine that Weinstein pursued her in the mid '90s and then propositioned her in a hotel room while his then-wife, Eve Chilton, was in the room next door. Darcel, who starred in "The Stolen Children" and "Uranus" has also accused other French producers, including Jacques Dorfmann. In October, shortly after the accusations against Harvey Weinstein went public, French actress Isabelle Adjani published an op-ed in the weekly JDD newspaper saying, "(T)his is not a game … When an actress dresses up in a seductive way to get a role, it's not to get raped!" She went on to say that in France, "things are more sneaky" than in the US — but "seduction" cannot be an excuse for assault. Author: Courtney Tenz amp/cmk (AP, Reuters, AFP)