Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Sunday called for all people in the country to come together, following protests last month that challenged the government. In a speech marking the 39th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution, Rouhani said he wanted the 40th year of the revolution to "be the year of unity." "I ask conservatives, reformists, moderates and all parties and all people to come and be together," he told a huge crowd in the capital, Tehran. Protests rocked Iran in December and January Admission of shortcomings In an apparent response to protesters' complaints, Rouhani also admitted that the government had made mistakes since the revolution. "In the last 39 years, we have progressed in many fields, but at the same time we have had shortcomings," he said, adding: "Maybe we haven't been speaking transparently with our people." Rouhani also said that conservatives should not block reformist candidates from future elections and that the government should trust the people more. Hundreds of reformists have in the past been stopped for standing for the presidency and parliament by the Guardian Council, which is dominated by conservatives. Read more: Protests in Iran: The genie is out of the bottle Recent civil unrest The speech in Azadi Square came after demonstrators in Tehran marched through the streets chanting slogans against the United States and Israel. Anniversary celebrations are occurring against a backdrop of continued economic struggles, despite a 2015 landmark deal that saw heavy international sanctions lifted in return for Iran's curtailment of its nuclear program. In late December and early January, there were several protests across the country that began over economic issues but changed into demonstrations that directly challenged the government. Read more: What is the Iran nuclear deal? High unemployment, high inflation and a deepening divide between poor and wealthy Iranians: The economic crisis in Iran is a major cause of frustration for many people. The easing of international sanctions following the 2015 nuclear deal has not improved people's living conditions as expected. The majority of protesters so far are poor Iranians. People from major cities across the country converged on the capital, Tehran, to vent their anger when demonstrations began on December 28. They have since expanded to cities and towns in almost every province. It is not clear who is spearheading the protests, or if anyone is leading them at all. The demands have, however, become more political: stop backing the Hezbollah militia in Lebanon, no intervention in Syria and Iraq. The protesters are urging the government to focus on domestic problems. There have also been calls for Ayatollah Khamenei to step down. Five days after the demonstrators first took to the streets, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, reacted to the protesters' demands, accusing "enemies of Iran" of using "different tools including cash, weapons, politics and [the] intelligence apparatus to create troubles for the Islamic Republic." Authorities report that 450 people were arrested in connection with the protests. Twenty-one people are believed to have died in violent clashes, among them 16 demonstrators. They are the largest protests Iran has seen since the disputed 2009 presidential election. Author: Hao Gui Theocratic revolution In February 1979, an uprising led by then exiled cleric Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, led to the downfall of the monarchy under Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, whose regime was accused of being autocratic, brutal and politically corrupt. The shah died in exile in 1980 The revolution resulted in the establishment of an Islamic Republic based on a theocratic constitution, with Khomeini becoming Supreme Leader of the country in December of that year. The change from 2,500 years of continuous monarchy brought with it a rejection of the pro-Western course already taken by the shah's father, Reza Shah. Notably, some women's rights were severely limited, despite the prominent role played by women during the revolution. Recent weeks have seen several protests by women opposed to a law obliging them to wear a headscarf in public. tj/jlw (dpa, AP, AFP)