Mark Rowley, the outgoing head of counterterrorism policing in the United Kingdom, said Monday that police had "foiled four extreme right-wing terror plots" in the country in the last year. "Countries around the world face similar challenges from Islamist and right-wing extremism and terrorism," Rowley said. "But I know of no other country better able to confront this threat than the UK." Since the lead-up to the Brexit vote in June 2016, the UK has witnessed an increase in right-wing attacks. Days before the referendum, a 52-year-old right-wing extremist shot and killed British lawmaker Jo Cox. In June last year, a 48-year-old man drove a vehicle into Muslim worshipers after finding inspiration in far-right ideologies. "The right-wing terrorist threat is more significant and more challenging than perhaps the public debate gives it credit for," Rowley said. British lawmaker Jo Cox was killed by a right-wing extremist in the lead-up to the Brexit vote Rising right-wing extremism The London-based think tank Counterpoint has said that as "Islamic terrorism is decreasing; extreme right terrorism is on its way up," citing a parliamentary report on violence and radicalization. Since the 2015 migration crisis, Europe has witnessed growing right-wing extremism. In Germany, a Bundeswehr soldier was charged in December for planning to carry out attacks targeting high-profile politicians and framing refugees for the crimes. In 2016, an alleged member of the far-right Reichsbürger movement murdered a police officer during a raid of his home. Police were seeking to confiscate his cache of roughly 30 weapons. Read more: Germany — How do terrorist groups compare? Threat to democracy For some, the threat posed by right-wing extremism goes beyond violent crimes and instead challenges the very foundations of Western European countries. "Populist extremist parties present one of the most pressing challenges to European democracies," said a report published by the London-based Chatham House think tank last year. "These parties share two core features: they fiercely oppose immigration and rising ethnic and cultural diversity; and they pursue a populist 'anti-establishment' strategy that attacks mainstream parties and is ambivalent if not hostile towards liberal representative democracy." Reichsbürger translates to "citizens of the Reich." What unites this loose movement is rejection of the modern Federal Republic of Germany. They believe the 1937 or 1871 borders of the German Empire still exist and today's country is an administrative construct still occupied by the Allied powers. Many subscribe to far-right or anti-Semitic ideologies. Their conspiracy theories have been debunked. The Reichsbürger scene is a disparate, leaderless movement totalling about 15,000 supporters, according to German intelligence officials. Of those, about 900 have been identified as far-right extremists and 1,000 have a license to own firearms. Authorities are concerned about some members' potential to become violent and have conducted several raids on Reichsbürger suspects to sieze weapons. Adrian Ursache, a 42-year-old former winner of the Mister Germany beauty pageant, is also a Reichsbürger member. He is currently facing trial for attempted murder after an August 2016 gun battle with police as they tried to evict him from his home. Typically, Reichsbürger refuse to recognize any state apparatus, printing their own passports and driving licenses. The case of Wolfgang P., who in October 2017 was sentenced to life in prison for murdering a police officer, is seen as a turning point for how German authorities deal with the extremist group. P., an alleged Reichsbürger member, shot at officers who were raiding his home to confiscate weapons. German authorities have been accused of long underestimating the threat posed by the Reichsbürger. Since the murder of the police officer in Bavaria, law enforcement has been cracking down on them more vigorously. In the past year there have been several raids on Reichsbürger targets. Some German police and military forces have also probed whether they may have Reichsbürger among their own ranks. Author: Samantha Early