The Colombian FARC's political movement announced the suspension of its campaigning activities on Friday, due to threats and protests that have disrupted various rallies. Following a peace accord that put an end to its 52-year armed struggle, members of the FARC guerrilla group formed a new political party in 2017. Read more: Colombia struggles to accept guerrillas' new political role Despite the negative association with its previous activities, the ex-rebels opted to use the acronym FARC as its political organization's name, changing only the meaning from Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia to Common Alternative Revolutionary Force. FARC candidates have been campaigning for the legislative elections in March and presidential elections in June. FARC vice presidential candidate Imelda Daza announced that the political events are "temporarily suspended" until the government is able to provide her party with "minimum guarantees" of safety. "At the very least, we demand respect for our physical integrity and the right to present our ideas," she said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jTiP Protesters at FARC political rallies At a campaign stop last weekend, the FARC candidate for president, Rodrigo Londono, known by his nom de guerre Timochenko, was confronted by protesters at two separate events who shouted "murderer, terrorist" and pelted him and his vehicle with eggs, tomatoes and plastic bottles. Senate candidate Ivan Marquez was also forced to cancel an event on Sunday due to the presence of dozens of protesters at the scene. Jorge Torres Victoria, the head of the FARC political party, said the protests were "coordinated attacks" against his group. He said threats and "widespread messages of hate" on social media are "inciting violence." Torres Victoria said he was confident groups affiliated with rival Centro Democratico, the right-wing rival party of ex-president Alvaro Uribe, were behind the move to threaten FARC candidates. Rodrigo Londono, FARC presidential candidate for the 2018 elections President Juan Manuel Santos spoke out against the attacks on Thursday. "I ask that we be tolerant and generous between ourselves. I don't think this is in the interest of democracy and we all must reject these aggressions that some candidates are suffering, especially the FARC candidates," he said. Santos urged Colombians to protest peacefully. Most Colombians oppose FARC Widespread anger at the FARC still lingers in Colombia. The organization is responsible for many kidnappings, bombings and displacements. Much of the population believes that the former guerrilla members should be in prison and not play a role in national politics. Read more: In Colombia, peace remains elusive one year on Recent polls give FARC presidential candidate Londono a mere 1 percent approval, despite his campaign platform to fight poverty. Around 80 percent of Colombians reject the group altogether. In 1948, the assassination of populist leader Jorge Eliecer Gaitan sparked political chaos in Colombia known as "the violence." Tens of thousands died and peasant groups joined with communists to arm themselves. Later in 1964, a military attack on the insurgency's main encampment led to the creation of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC. FARC's political ideology has never been well defined. Initially, it sought to weaken the oligarchy's grip on power. The rebels also wanted land reforms in a country where more than 5 million people have been forcibly displaced, mostly by far-right militias. However, the group lost popularity as it turned to kidnapping and illegal gold mining for funds. To help the Colombian security forces fight against the insurgency and to counter drug-trafficking, the US began sending billions of dollars under Plan Colombia. The US State Department classifies the group as a terrorist organization and its leaders face US indictments. Latin America's longest-running armed conflict is responsible for the death an estimated 220,000 people, while millions of Colombians have been displaced within their country. According to Bogota’s estimates, there are 7.6 million direct and indirect victims of the conflict. The country has more landmine victims than any country except for Afghanistan. Peace talks between FARC and the government collapsed in the mid 1980s after at least 3,000 allies of FARC's political wing Patriotic Union Party were killed at the hands of right-wing paramilitaries. Efforts fell short again in 2002 after the rebels hijacked an airliner to kidnap a senator. The latest round of talks started in 2012 in Havana and culminated on August 24, 2016 with a deal. "We have reached a final, integral and definitive agreement" to end the conflict and build a stable, lasting peace, the government of President Juan Manuel Santos and the left-wing Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia said in a joint statement. In June, the negotiators had already announced a cease-fire agreement and a blueprint for how the estimated 7,000 to 8,000 fighters will demobilize. Author: Aasim Saleem jcg/sms (Reuters, AFP, EFE )