Following a meeting on Friday with British Prime Minister Theresa May in Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for a "fair balance" in the final Brexit deal that will see the UK part ways with the European Union's 27 other members in March 2019. "In the end there needs to be a fair balance of divergence, from the single market for example, and on the other hand a partnership that is not too close," Merkel said at a news conference. "This can be achieved and the 27 will ensure that the relationship is as close as possible but that there is a difference to membership." Read more: How a hard Brexit could hurt Germany: Reckoning with the worst Though other EU leaders have expressed consternation over the way Brexit negotiations have been proceeding, the German chancellor struck a more positive tone, stating that she was not frustrated with the negotiations. Merkel added that she would like to see the EU stick to the proposed Brexit timeline and admitted the negotiating partners were under time pressure. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. The former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that 'Brexit means Brexit.' May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline splits talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needs to pay into the EU budget after it leaves - the "Brexit Bill," the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could guarantee an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Ahead of the third round at the end of August, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker lashed out at London for publishing multiple "position papers." Some papers were about the future EU-UK trading relationship, which Juncker said could not be discussed before an agreement on the three phase one issues. Round three ended with some progress on citizens' rights, but none on the Brexit Bill. Theresa May had tried to breathe new life into talks ahead of the fourth round with a speech in Florence, Italy in mid-September. She agreed to a transition phase after March 2019 in which Britain would accept EU rules until a final exit. But round four ended without any notable progress and arch-Brexiteer Nigel Farage said May had stuck "two fingers" at leave voters for accepting a transition. Theresa May spoke at her party's annual conference at the beginning of October and reiterated that Britain would be willing to leave the EU with no final deal. But she did not speak about the disagreements that were still plaguing talks in Brussels. Round five ended a week later with no agreement on the Brexit Bill and no sign that the EU was willing to start phase two talks in the coming months. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Ireland has repeatedly said it won't accept any "hard" border with Northern Ireland after Brexit. Britain agreed in early December there would be no hard border, but didn't say how it would avoid that outcome. It didn't matter. That, along with agreements on money and citizens' rights, was good enough for the EU to say it would give the green light for starting phase 2. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2. Talks will now focus on a transition period and the future trading relationship between the two sides. While the Britain's Theresa May expressed her delight, European Council President Donald Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks will be "dramatically difficult." Author: Alexander Pearson May echoed Merkel's sentiments, saying that she wanted a Brexit that benefited both the EU and companies in the UK. "I want to ensure that UK companies have the maximum freedom to trade and operate within German markets, and for German businesses to do the same in the UK," Merkel added. The UK prime minister was in Germany to attend the Munich Security Conference (MSC) alongside about 20 other heads of state and government, and 75 foreign and defense ministers. The key gathering for the international "strategic community" runs from March 16 to 18. May would like the maximum possible economic freedom outside of the EU The prime minister added that she would announce her plans for the UK's future relationship with the EU on Saturday in Munich. Cooperation in the areas of foreign and security policy and economic and trade relations would be a particular focus, she added. More Brexit in Bavaria As May and Merkel gave their remarks in Berlin, the topic of Brexit was already on the Bavarian discussion table. Speaking at the MSC on Friday, the EU's top Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, repeated his call to London to clarify its vision for future relations with the bloc. Barnier said he was "working on a solution with Britain, not against them," and the two sides are heading for an orderly Brexit, rather than a "no deal" scenario. Britain is leaving the EU on March 29 next year. However, the British government remains deeply split on the issue. The complex talks must be concluded before the fall to allow time for European parliaments to ratify any deal. While an initial agreement has been struck, the details still need to be worked out. The key sticking points between the UK and the EU include the length of the Brexit transition period, the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, and EU migration into Britain after Brexit. EU leaders agreed to negotiating guidelines during a summit in April 2017 that divided the divorce talks into two phases. Phase I, in which both sides aimed to settle the basic terms of Britain's departure, started in July and ended with an agreement on "sufficient progress" in December. Officials are now holding Phase II negotiations on the post-Brexit relationship between Britain and the EU. London agreed to a formula for calculating what it owes in its "divorce bill" to the EU in early December after months of haggling by British officials. The current EU budget expires in 2022 and EU officials have said the divorce bill will cover financial obligations Britain had committed to before triggering article 50. The final bill will reportedly total around £50 billion (€67 billion). Both sides agreed in early December that the 3 million EU citizens currently in Britain and the 1.1 million British citizens in the EU keep their residency rights after Brexit. British courts will have immediate jurisdiction over EU citizens living in Britain. But the EU's highest court, the ECJ, can hear cases until 2027 if British judges refer unclear cases to them. Britain and the EU also agreed in December that no border checks between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland would return post-Brexit. How feasible the commitment will be is unclear, as Britain's commitment to leaving the EU Single Market and Customs Union makes it difficult to avoid customs checks at the Irish border. Theresa May envisages a two-year transition period after March 2019. Both sides still have to hash out the details of the transition period in Phase II, including the exact end-date, whether new EU laws passed during the period will apply to Britain, and whether Britain can negotiate its own free trade deals. British officials hope to agree on the terms of the transition by March 2018. May has repeatedly said Britain will leave the European Single Market and the EU Customs Union. Leaving both could disrupt British-EU trade, but allow Britain to negotiate its own free trade deals and restrict EU migration — key demands by pro-Brexit politicians. London has said it wants to negotiate a new EU-UK trade deal during Phase II to minimize trade disruption before March 2019. Britain has also vowed to restrict EU migration into Britain after Brexit. However, some British lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration could lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. The EU has warned that Single Market access is out of the question if London decides to restrict the ability of its citizens to live and work in Britain. Recent terror attacks across Europe including a string in Britain underline both sides' support for continued security cooperation after March 2019. But access to EU institutions such as Europol and programs such as the European Arrest Warrant require compliance with EU laws. Whether Britain will still be compliant after it leaves is unclear. Author: Alexander Pearson Brexit proceedings need a German government Another important negotiation that will shape the future of the bloc is Germany's attempts to form a government. Merkel and her would-be coalition partners, the center-left Social Democratic Party (SPD), have agreed in principle on a coalition deal, but SPD members still need to approve it. Until they do so, Merkel's fourth term as chancellor is not a done deal. The uncertain political future in Germany, considered the bloc's financial powerhouse, could impact the stability of the EU. Read more: Follow the money: What are the EU's migration policy priorities? Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2hsSu cmb, kw/kms (dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.