It would be a cruel trick of evolution if woodpeckers could develop brain damage just by pecking wood. But new research from the US shows that the high-force impacts do cause a potentially harmful protein to build up inside brains of downy woodpeckers. That protein is a type of "tau," and it is the same kind found inside the brains of people with neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's or Parkinson's. It is also found inside the brains of some athletes who played high-impact sports like American football, rugby or hockey. In woodpeckers, the presence of this tau protein is odd because it would seem to suggest that the bird's own body has not evolved to protect itself from a daily routine - chipping a hole into a tree - which it does to forage for food, a nest or sexual advantage. A study in 15 birds For their study, scientists at Boston University examined the brains of ten downy woodpeckers and compared them to the brains of five control birds that don't engage in any comparable high-impact pecking behavior, in this case red-winged black birds. Under the microscope, zero of the five control birds showed tau "stains" indicating brain damage. When the downy woodpeckers were examined, eight out of ten did. That suggests the forceful decelerations of their skull against a tree are causing real damage to their brains - or at the very least is leading to the creation of a potentially harmful protein. The presence of these tau clumps has opened the question as to whether they're pathological in the birds or whether they are neutral or even protective in nature. A comparison of a healthy human brain and one with Level 4 CTE Answering that question could be relevant toward preventing or treating Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, or CTE, which develops after multiple head injuries and can lead to behavioral changes and long-term dementia. Boston University researchers recently found CTE lesions in the brains of 110 of 111 deceased former NFL players, but such lesions are also suspected to occur in other high-impact sports. And since the tau stains were also discovered in a juvenile woodpecker, the researchers suspect that age may be a less relevant factor than repetitive impact trauma to the brain. The study published in PLOS ONE is the first of its kind to look at the potential existence of neurotrauma in woodpeckers. With their thick necks and unique skulls, the birds had previously been considered so evolutionarily adapted to pecking that they were used as models for safety equipment such as American football helmets and neck collars. The research also lends a bit of prescience to the 1979 poem "Woodpecker" by English poet and children's writer Ted Hughes: Woodpecker is rubber-necked But has a nose of steel. He bangs his head against the wall And cannot even feel.  When Woodpecker’s jack-hammer head Starts up its dreadful din Knocking the dead bough double dead How do his eyes stay in?  Pity the poor dead oak that cries In terrors and in pains. But pity more Woodpecker’s eyes And bouncing rubber brains.  Fancy becoming a professional wrestler? You might want to rethink that plan. There is research that shows the brains of some wrestlers have been seriously damaged - thanks to repeated head injuries. When Canadian wrestler Chris Benoit died at the age of 40, doctors found his brain was so severely damaged it resembled the brain of an 85-year-old Alzheimer's patient. Doctors have a name for the illness: chronic boxer's encephalopathy - or punch-drunk symptom. This happens when a sufferer has received repeated concussive blows, resulting in irreversible damage. That's problems with memory, loss of speech, suicidal thoughts and ultimately dementia. Professional boxers are also at risk. But chronic boxer's encephalopathy is not restricted to boxers. It is very common in American Football players as well. According to the journal "Science," the average National Football League player gets more than 600 helmet hits a season. Even hard-shelled helmets can't prevent concussion under such circumstances. The National Football League (NFL) used to deny the existence of the punch-drunk syndrome among its players. But times are changing. They have revised some rules to prevent head-to-head-collisions from happening too often. Meanwhile, researchers are working on palm-sized magnet inserts for helmets. Repellent forces may act to slow down collisions before they occur. If you want to avoid brain damage, you should also avoid playing hockey: some hockey players have been diagnosed with the disease. The problem with multiple head collisions - accidental or otherwise - is that they lead to an accumulation of dangerous proteins inside the brain. You might not think of it, but even soccer players can be at risk - when they jump for a header. The forces experienced may seem harmless compared to the brutal hits during an American football or hockey game. But the problem is it all adds up. Even baseball can be a risky kind of sport. The first baseball player ever to be diagnosed with punch-drunk syndrome committed suicide at the age of 36. The syndrome, however, can only be diagnosed when the patient has died. Only an autopsy can tell how dangerous your favorite sport is for your brain. Author: Brigitte Osterath