Bayern Munich 5-0 Besiktas (Müller 43', 66', Coman 52', Lewandowski 79', 88') Thomas Müller and Robert Lewandowski scored a brace each as Bayern Munich taught Besiktas a footballing lesson to all but guarantee their passage to the quarter finals. Jupp Heynckes, who guided Bayern to their first and only ever treble in 2013, is chasing the same feat again in his latest comeback in Bavaria. The veteran coach decided to leave Arjen Robben and Franck Ribery on the bench and instead opted for Kingsley Coman and Thomas Müller in the wide positions. It proved a masterstroke. Both players were fundamental to Bayern's success here as Besiktas folded after 16 minutes, when Domagoj Vida was shown a straight red card for a professional foul on Lewandowski. From that point on, a thrashing was always on the cards. Coman played a big part in the opener, racing to the byline and picking out David Alaba, who helped the ball on to Müller, who forced it over the line from close range. Bayern took a 1-0 lead in at the break but lost James Rodriguez to injury, with the Colombian forced off just before half time when Müller hammered a shot into the side of his head in a freak accident. Read more: Messi strike gives Barcelona the edge Bayern stepped things up after the break and had doubled their lead just seven minutes after the restart, with Coman finishing a slick Bayern move that involved Müller and Lewandowski. Bayern could smell a third and it came midway through the second half courtesy of Müller, who grabbed his second of the game with the deftest of finishes from Joshua Kimmich's pinpoint cross. The hosts were in party mood now and Lewandowski decided to get involved with two goals in the final 11 minutes, which really hammered the final nails in Besiktas' coffin. The Pole's first came after Besiktas keeper Fabri was unable to hold on to a shot from distance, and Lewandowski was quickest to react. His second was a tap-in after Müller put it on a plate for him. Bayern haven't lost a game since the end of November and are hitting top form just when it matters. They can already start thinking about the quarterfinals and, in this form, no one will fancy a trip to the Allianz.  As it happened: FT Bayern 5-0 Besiktas — It's all over and Beyern have blown Besiktas away. Absolutely demolished them and you can see no way back for the Turkish champions. Müller and Lewandowski score a brace each and Coman grabs the other. Tie over. 88' GOAL! Bayern 5-0 Besiktas — Müller turns provider for Lewandowski this time, as the Pole slides the ball in from close range to complete Besiktas' misery. It's five and Bayern can start booking their hotel for the quarters. Thomas Müller has been the star of the show for Bayern. 79' GOAL! Bayern 4-0 Besiktas — Lewandowski makes it four! Fabri is unable to hold on to a long range effort and Lewandowski is quickest to react, sweeping the ball in to make it four. Bayern have one foot, maybe two feet, in the quarter-finals. 70' Bayern creating chances for fun now. Coman drifts to the byline again and picks out Müller, but the Germany forward can't keep his header down. 66' GOAL! Bayern 3-0 Besiktas — Müller has a second and Bayern have their third, no way back for Besiktas now! Kimmich is again given too much space on the right to pick out Müller, whose deft finish from close range puts Bayern in total control of the tie now. 58' Bayern putting Besiktas under huge pressure as they're queuing up in the box but Besiktas somehow get it clear. Besiktas will do very well to walk away from Munich with this scoreline intact. 52' GOAL! Bayern 2-0 Besiktas — Kingsley Coman makes it two! Müller threads a pass through to Lewandowski, who picks out Coman to finish without breaking stride. Bayern in control. 50' OFF THE POST! Lewandowski is fouled on the very edge of the box and gets up to ping a brilliant free-kick against the outside of the post. Fabri was stranded. Brilliant effort. 46' Second half is underway in Munich. HT Now that's a stat. 45' HT Bayern 1-0 Besiktas —Müller's goal at the end of the first half is just reward for their dominance. The ten men of Besiktas will do well to keep this under three in the second half. Besiktas have had their moments, but Bayern are in control of this one. 44' Bayern sub: Robben is on for Rodriguez. The Colombian has not recovered from having the ball smashed in his head at point blank range by Müller. 43' GOAL! Bayern 1-0 Besiktas! Bayern lead through Thomas Müller! Coman gets to the byline and cuts back to Alaba, who helps it on to Müller, who scrambled it in from close range. 39' Quaresma side steps Hummels like he isn't there and drills a shot that Ulreich palsm out for a corner. That's as close as the 10 men of Besiktas have come tonight. 37' Chance for Bayern as Vidal knocks down a deep cross for Lewandowski. The Pole juggles the ball and tries to hook it over his own head into the net, but can't keep it down. Besiktas midfielder Gary Medel has taken a whack to the face for his troubles. 33' Quaresma goes into the book for a late lunge on Coman, who was driving into the box. Bayern starting to put the visitoes under real pressure. 30' CLOSE! Hummels goes close with a thumping header which Fabri reacts brilliantly to, tipping over the bar. It was straight at him, but a top save nonetheless. 24' Thomas Müller will not be on James Rodriguez's Christmas card list this year. Müller has just walloped the ball into the side of Rodriguez's face from five meters away. That's goota hurt! Domagoj Vida receives his marching orders for a foul on Lewandowski. 19' MASSIVE CHANCE FOR BESIKTAS! My oh my, oh has Vagner Love missed this? There's a space big enough to drive a bus between Jerome Boateng and Mats Hummels but Love 16' RED CARD! Besiktas will play the remaining minutes with 10 men, as Vida receives his marching orders for bringing down Lewandowski. 11' CLOSE! Vidal goes even closer with a glancing header after Kimmich was given way too much time to pick out the Chilean. Bayern starting to find their rhythm. 9' Bayern's first real chance of the night falls to Coman, who cuts in from the left and drills a powerful low shot that Fabricio does well to palm to safety. 7' Quaresma whips in a dangerous cross from the right but Ulreich gathers it well. A decent start from the visitors. 4' Besiktas have started positively here. Ryan Babel, formerly of Hoffenheim and Liverpool, looks to have got into a great position on the left, but he drags Kimmich back and Bayern have a free-kick. 1' KICK OFF — And we're off! 20.40 The players are out at the Allianz Arena and we're just about ready to go! 20.25And the Besiktas XI... 20.20 Here's how Bayern line up. Robben and Ribery on the bench. 20.15 Good evening ladies and gentlemen, welcome to live coverage of Bayern Munich versus Besiktas. Team news to come!