Five people protesters were killed, 20 wounded this week when security forces clashed with protesters at the refugee camp in Kiziba. The protests outside the UN offices began on Tuesday as a result of cuts in food rations. The UN's World Food Program (WFP) explained that it was forced to cut rations by 25 percent because European donor countries cut their funding. The protest escalated on Thursday. "We have detained five of the instigators of these illegal protests," police spokesperson, Theos Badege told DW. Seven police officers also suffered injuries during the protests. The camp is one of six Rwandan refugee camps which hosts refugees who fled the political unrest in Burundi and ethnic violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The camp in Kiziba currently hosts 17,000 people. Read also: Burundi should cooperate with ICC investigators The refugee camp in Kiziba hosts around 17,000 people UNHCR calls for an investigation The police defended their harsh crackdown, saying that the protesters were not cooperating. The refugees had allegedly been advised not to leave the camp and remain calm as long as the government was still negotiating with the UNHCR. The protesters had, however, not complied with this order and marched towards the capital, Kigali. Some of the protesters had armed themselves with sticks and stones, according to police. The government must guarantee the security of the refugees, a UNHCR spokesperson said on Friday, demanding an investigation into the deaths. The organization said that only two percent of its funding appeal for 2018 for Rwanda had been secured. Read also: Mobile power to bring Rwanda's remote regions into the future July 21, 2015: After three months of protests against Pierre Nkurunziza's third term and fierce battles between Nkurunziza’s supporters and the opposition, the presidential election was finally held. But the opposition chose to boycott it. July 24, 2015: President Nkurunziza wins the presidential election in the first round. With 69% of the vote, he was far ahead of his main challenger, Agathon Rwasa. By the end of July, Rwasa was surprisingly elected as first vice president of the national assembly, sparking criticism from his former allies. August 1, 2015: Adolphe Nshimirimana, head of internal security and considered the right-hand man of the president, is assassinated. In a statement, the European Union raised concern over this "dangerous escalation of violence." Brussels calls for "restraint" and a resumption of "dialogue." August 3, 2015: Pierre-Claver Mbonimpa, head of the human rights organization (APRODH), survives an assassination attempt and is evacuated to Brussels for medical treatment. But his family continues to be targeted and in October 2015 one of his sons-in-laws is killed and a month later his son is also murdered in Bujumbura. Since the crisis began, a large number of Burundian refugees fled to neighboring Rwanda. On November 6, 2015, President Kagame spoke about what was happening in Burundi: "People are dying every day, corpses littering the streets," he said. "They should learn from what happened here." Nkurunziza’s team fired back, accusing Rwanda of training rebels seeking to destabilize the country. December 12, 2015: A crackdown begins on neighborhoods like Nyakabiga that were believed to be strongholds of protesters. This came after an attack by rebels against three military camps. More than a hundred victims were identified. The UN said that 400 people had been killed since April 26 and 3,500 were arrested in connection with the crisis. December 17, 2015: The United Nations warns that the situation in Burundi is "highly explosive" and that the country is on the path to a civil war. Adama Dieng, the UN special rapporteur on the prevention of genocide, warns of a possible genocide. "If a conflict breaks out on a large scale, we cannot pretend that we did not know about it," he said. December 23, 2015: A former army officer in the Burundian army forms the "Republican Forces of Burundi" (FOREBU). Lieutenant Colonel Edouard Nshimirimana accuses Pierre Nkurunziza of instigating the security forces to commit acts of violence and pitting police and military against each other along ethnic lines. December 28, 2015: Inter-Burundian peace talks start in Entebbe under the auscipices of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni. The African Union (AU) also announces that it will deploy a 5,000-strong peacekeeping force to help secure the country, an idea that is immediately rejected by the Burundian government. January 2016: Mediation fails to kickoff in Arusha. A month later, February 25 -26, the African Union sends a "high- level" delegation to Bujumbura led by South African President Jacob Zuma. It’s another failed attempt. Bujumbura refuses to talk with the opposition CNARED. UNHCR announces a group of independent experts to investigate violations of human rights in Burundi. April 18, 2016: The UN Human Rights Commissioner Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein criticizes Burundi’s security forces for routinely torturing prisoners. Since the beginning of the year, his team had registered at least 345 new cases of torture. He urged the Burundian authorities to immediately put an end to torture in all its forms. May 21, 2016: After another delay, the Inter-Burundian dialogue resumes in Arusha, Tanzania at the initiative of the Tanzanian mediator, former President Benjamin Mkapa. The Burundian authorities demand that the opposition coalition CNARED should not be part of the dialogue. In June, the facilitator [Mkapa] travels to Brussels to meet members of the Opposition for the first time. June 3: Eleven students from a high school in Muramvya, in central Burundi, were charged and jailed for insulting the head of state. Their crime: doodled pictures of President Nkurunziza. A week earlier, more than 300 college students from Ruziba, south of Bujumbura, were expelled from school for the same reason. July 13, 2016. Hafsa Mossi, a former minister believed to be close to President Nkurunziza, is murdered near his home. A member of the ruling CNDD-FDD party, the former journalist was also the communications advisor for Nkurunziza. It is the first time a prominent political figure has been assassinated in Burundi. The crisis in Burundi was on the agenda of the 27th AU Summit in Kigali in July, but it took place without a representative from Bujumbura. The Burundi delegation left the Rwandan capital without explanation just days before the start of the summit. No action was taken against the government of President Pierre Nkurunziza, who still refuses to negotiate with the opposition. Author: Isaac mugabi Too hungry to study Around 500 kilometers (310 miles) south of Kiziba, in neighboring Tanzania, lies the Nyarugusu refugee camp. About 200,000 people from Burundi and DRC live here. They too are feeling the shortage in food aid. "The refugees go to our fields and steal our cassava and potatoes," says Amandusi Ndondeye, a representative from the local government. Young women from the camps have turned to prostitution to make ends meet. "We have very little money," says Marco Lujulika, a resident from the camp. "We need to be able to provide for ourselves and we at least need enough food to eat. The children are crying all the time and the ones who go to school can't concentrate on an empty stomach," he says. Faustin Lumona is the camp's education coordinator. "The children often come to school late, or they skip school altogether. Some fall asleep in class and all this because of the hunger," he told DW. "They also don't manage to study at home. Instead they go to the fields to try and find some food." Unable to work Refugees in Nyarugusu camp need a special permit to leave the camp Without any additional sources of income, the hardships in the camps are barely manageable. In order to actually leave the camp and earn money, the refugees need a special permit. "The people try to earn a bit of money on the farms in the area," explains Angelique Abiola, a spokesperson for the refugees in the camp. "But if you are caught without a permit, then you're in trouble,” she says. Over the years, Tanzania has often hosted refugees from the neighboring countries. The plight of the refugees at the Burundian border has, however, pushed Tanzania to its limits. The Tanzanian government is said to have encouraged the ‘voluntary' return of the refugees and some have indeed gone home despite the dangers. Correspondents Sylivanus Karemera and Prosper Kwigize contributed to this report. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qbYS