North Korea's ceremonial leader Kim Yong Nam (left in picture) will make an unprecedented visit to South Korea this week and attend the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Kim, president of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, would lead a 22-strong delegation that is expected to arrive in South Korea on Friday for a three-day trip, Seoul's Unification Ministry said in a statement on Sunday. North Korea's state-run news agency KCNA confirmed the news on Monday, saying the delegation would "soon visit South Korea to attend the opening ceremony of the 23rd Winter Olympics." Read more: North Korea used Berlin embassy to acquire nuclear tech: German spy chief Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qayc The North dispatching a high-level delegation was part of agreements the two Koreas struck last month over Olympic cooperation, under which the North is sending 22 athletes to the Pyeongchang games. The announcement has raised hopes for high-level inter-Korean talks after a year of high tensions over North Korea's illicit nuclear and missile programs. The South's presidential Blue House in Seoul said the visit by Kim would create "various opportunities" for high-level talks. "(Kim's visit) shows North Korea's resolve for improved inter-Korean relations and the success of the Olympics, as well as its sincere, earnest attitude," Blue House spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom told a news briefing on Monday. The Games opening ceremony will also be attended by US Vice President Mike Pence and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe among other world leaders. An Olympic Truce Mural has been installed at the Games village as a symbol of peace and reconciliation. Read more: Opinion: Kim Jong Un's Olympic Games A mural has been installed in the Games village to symbolize the Olympic spirit of peace Who is Kim Yong Nam? As the leader of the North Korea's ruling party-controlled parliament, Kim Yong Nam is the nominal head of North Korea. He is not to be confused with former leader Kim Jong Il's eldest son, also called Kim Jong Nam, who was found dead in suspicious circumstances in Malaysia last year. Kim, who is not a close blood relative of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, will be the highest-level Northern official ever to visit the South, but he is largely considered a figurehead. He also led the North's delegations to the 2008 Beijing Olympics and 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. He is not blacklisted by the United Nations or the United States because he is not believed to be involved in the North's nuclear program. The 90-year-old has been frequently seen on state TV making propaganda-filled speeches on key state anniversaries or receiving visiting foreign dignitaries. Meeting with South Korean President? In 2014, Choe Ryong Hae, a close aide to Kim Jong Un, was part of a high-level delegation to attend the closing ceremony of the Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea. Choe is now subject to unilateral sanctions imposed by South Korea in 2016. The 2014 delegation did not go to the presidential Blue House or meet then-South Korean President Park Geun-Hye, and only held talks with Park's national security advisor and the then unification minister. But experts say things could be different this time around. Kim Yong Nam's official status is high enough to warrant a meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, said Cheong Seong-Chang, an analyst at the Sejong Institute think tank told the AFP news agency. "At least in the North's party hierarchy, Kim Yong Nam is the second-highest official right below Kim Jong Un," he said. "I'd see it as a sign of determination by Kim Jong Un to improve inter-Korea ties." ap/msh (Reuters, AFP, AP) In August 2017, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution banning all coal, iron, iron ore and lead imports from North Korea. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf. This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier. In December 2017, a new raft of UN sanctions targeted fuel imports in North Korea, meaning its residents could have difficulties driving the country in Pyeonghwa sedans (pictured above). The sale and transfer of diesel and kerosene are limited while the import of crude oil is capped at 4 million barrels a year. UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad — at the country's Berlin embassy, for example — to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular. It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value. Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation.