Darren Osborne was found guilty on Thursday of murder and attempted murder after he intentionally drove into a group of worshipers outside a mosque in north London last year. The 48-year-old man from the Welsh capital of Cardiff was motivated by far-right ideology and hatred of Muslims, according to British prosecutors. Read more: UK urges online firms to remove terrorist content What we know Police said they were called at 12:20 am (22:20 UTC) to reports of a crash at Seven Sisters Road, which runs through the Finsbury Park area in North London. One man was pronounced dead at the scene, according to a police statement. Ten others were hurt in the incident. A police statement confirmed a 48-year-old suspect has been arrested. At least two witnesses told Sky News there were three men in the van. The Metropolitan Police have confirmed the Counter Terrorism Command Unit is investigating the incident. Prime Minister Theresa May said the incident "is being treated as a potential terrorist attack." Local people were seen observing prayers early Monday morning after the incident. The Muslim Council of Britain released a statement on Twitter calling the incident "the most violent manifestation to date" of Islamophobia. Author: Davis VanOpdorp 'Terrorist attack' During the trial, witnesses recalled Osborne saying, "I've done my job, you can kill me now" and "at least I had a proper go" in the immediate aftermath of the attack. The Crown Prosecution Service said, "We have been clear throughout that this was a terrorist attack, and he must now face the consequences of his actions. Commander Dean Haydon, who heads London police's counterterrorism division, said radicalization can happen quickly, "To be honest, some individuals look at material today and decide to do an attack later this evening." Read more: British PM Theresa May vows to fight 'all forms of terrorism' in wake of mosque attack How was Osborne radicalized: Osborne was reportedly radicalized after watching a BBC drama entitled "Three Girls," which dealt with pedophile rings in northern England organized by several British-Pakistani dual nationals. After watching the three-part series, he became "obsessed" with far-right figures. Read more: In Britain, tolerance the 'acceptance' of extremism Did he act alone: During his defense, Osborne claimed that two other men had been involved in the attack. However, prosecutors said they "are satisfied (they) do not exist" after reviewing CCTV evidence and witnesses' statements. What happens next: Osborne will return to court for sentencing, possibly as early as Friday. Osborne was apprehended at the scene by several men who witnessed the attack. Police later secured the area. ls/sms (AFP, AP)