The Russian delegation at the Pyeongchang Olympic Winter Games announced on Tuesday that Alexander Krushelnitsky's second or "B" sample has come back positive, a day after the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) announced it had opened a case against him. A statement released by the Russian delegation suggested that Krushelnitsky, who teamed up with his wife to win bronze in mixed curling, had not knowingly taken the heart medication meldonium, the banned substance  he tested positive for. The Russians added that the amount detected in the curler's samples was not enough to achieve a therapeutic effect. Using such a small amount would have been "absolutely pointless," the statement said. "Thus, the fact of a conscious or systematic use of the banned substance is not confirmed." The delegation added that it could not explain how the substance had ended up in Krushelnitsky's system and that it had launched an investigation into the matter. Hearing not yet scheduled The CAS has said that it has not yet scheduled a hearing for Krushelnitsky's case. However, president of the Russian curling federation Dmitry Svishchev said it could happen within the next 48 hours. "Today practically all members of the Russian curling federation are flying to Pyeongchang to attend the CAS session, which is tentatively scheduled for Thursday," Svishchev said in comments reported by state news agency TASS. Implications for closing ceremony? Krushelnitsky is one of 168 Russians competing under a neutral flag at the Pyeongchang Games under the banner "Olympic Athlete from Russia". This came after the International Olympic Committee (IOC) suspended the Russian Olympic Committee late last year over evidence of state-sponsored doping, outlined in a World Anti-Doping Agency-commissioned report. The IOC has previously said it would lift the suspension at the end of the Games, allowing the Russians to display their national flag at the closing ceremony. However, the IOC's position on the matter could change in light of Krushelnitsky's positive test. There have been two other positive tests at these Games, one involved a Japanese reserve speedskater, the other a Slovenian ice hockey player. pfd/ (dpa, Reuters, AP)