And that's it for the first day of the 2018 Winter Olympics. An 8-0 loss for the combined Korean ice hockey team dominated the later stages of the day, more for political than sporting reasons. But there was better news for South Korea earlier in the day when Lim Hyojun won gold in the 1500m short track speed skating, handing the hosts their first medal of the Games. Germany top the early medal table after they picked up a pair of golds on Saturday. Biathlete Laura Dahlmeier, 24, got the party started when she hit all 10 targets to win the women's 7.5-kilometer sprint. "The coach told me I had to fight for every second because there are some athletes behind me, and that I should run for my life," the elated athlete said after her win. Then, as the clock ticked past midnight, Andreas Wellinger dramatically claimed ski jump gold for Germany, pipping a pair of Norwegians to the top of the podium. We’ll see you again in about eight hours or so, when we’ll have snowboarding, alpine skiing, speed skating and plenty more. Thanks for your company. As it happened 16:23 - GERMAN GOLD! Everyone was looking for his teammate Richard Freitag but Andreas Wellinger has won the men's ski jump. The 22-year-old watched as Poland's Stefan Hula failed to match him and made it two gold for Germany on the opening day. 16:16 -  Another Norwegian takes the lead, Robert Johansson now in gold medal position. 16:08 - It's officially gone midnight in South Korea, which means it's technically day 2 of the Games. Still 10 jumpers to go in the men's ski jump. 15:55 - That lead has now gone, with Norway's Daniel-André Tande landing a huge effort. 15:40 - The ski jump, today's final event, is nearing its conclusion. Slovenia’s Peter Prevc is currently in the lead. 14:43 — Women's Ice Hockey: Switzerland increases their lead over Korea to 6-0 in the second period. 14:00 — Speed Skating (Oval): The Netherlands have swept the podium in the Women's 3000m. Carlijn Achtereekte collects the gold, Ireen Wust the silver and Antoinette De Jong the bronze. Germany's Claudia Pechstein, who still holds the Olympic record, finished ninth.  13:48 — Women's Ice Hockey: Not a great debut for the unified Korean women's hockey team. They are currently losing to Switzerland 3-0 in the first period of their preliminary round match. 13:34 — Short Track Speed Skating: Lim Hyojun gets the first medal for hosts South Korea, winning the Men's 3000m, setting a new Olympic record in the process! Men's 3000m Final A results... 13:25 — Short Track Speed Skating: Men's 3000m Final B results... 13:13 — Speed Skating (Short Track): Women's 3000m relay finals seeds... 13:10 — Speed Skating (Short Track): ANOTHER new Olympic record! China tops South Korea's mark in the second heat of the Women's 3000m relay with a time of 4:05.315! 13:03 — Speed Skating (Short Track): South Korea has set a new Olympic record in the semifinals of the Women's 3000m relay with a time of 4:06.387! 12:46 — Speed Skating (Short Track): Men's 1500m finals... 12:30 — Biathlon: Laura Dahlmeier collects Germany's first gold medal in Pyeongchang! She wins the 7.5-kilometer sprint with a time of 21:06.2. Women's 7.5km sprint results: 12:25 — Speed Skating (Short Track): Results of the semifinal heats for the Men's 1500m (top three qualify for the finals) 12:22 — Biathlon: Germany's Franziska Hildebrand begins her 7.5-kilometer sprint, the 14th competitor out of the gate. 12:15 — Biathlon: the women's 7.5-kilometer sprint has commenced with Austria's Lisa Theresa-Hauser the first out of the gate. Germany's Denise Herrmann starts third. 12:02 — North Korean fans are in full force for short track speed skating. 11:48 — Speed Skating (Short Track): Results of the preliminary heats for the Women's 500m (top two qualify for the quarterfinals): 11:14 — Speed Skating (Short Track): Results of the preliminary heats for the Men's 1500m (top three qualify for the semifinals): 10:46 — Sweden's women's hockey team beats Japan 2-1 in the first preliminary match. Japan was unable to force overtime despite an empty net and a power play advantage in the final 30 seconds. 10:16 — Sweden retakes the lead! Sara Hjalmarsson scores to put her country back ahead 2-1. 10:12 — Women's Ice Hockey: Faceoff for the third period of the first preliminary round game between Sweden and Japan. The score is tied 1-1. 9:59 — Women's Ice Hockey: End of the second period. Sweden and Japan locked at 1-1 after goals from Fanny Rask and Rui Ukita. 9:51 — Women's Ice Hockey: Japan has leveled the score 1-1 against Sweden in the second period, Rui Ukita capitalizing on a defensive mistake from Sweden and slotting it home just outside the crease. 9:39 — Women's Ice Hockey: Sweden leads Japan 1-0 in the second period in the first game of the preliminary round. Fanny Rask scored in the first period to give Sweden the lead. 8:55 — Cross Country Skiing: Carlotte Kalla of Sweden collects the first gold medal of the Pyeongchang Olympics, winning the Ladies' 7.5 km + 7.5 km skiathlon. Marit Bjoergen of Norway gets the silver and Finland's Krista Parmakowski the bronze in a Scandinavian sweep. 8:46 — Cross Country Skiing: Marit Bjoergen leads the field as the skiers enter the quarter of the race. 8:37 — Cross Country Skiing: Three Norwegians — Heidi Weng, Invild Flugstad Oestberg and Marit Bjoergen lead as the skiers reach the pit stop ant change courses. Germans Katarina Hening and Victoria Carl in 16th and 17th respectively. 8:26 — Cross Country Skiing: German Victoria Carl leads the first half of the first 7.5-kilometer leg. 8:15 — Cross Country Skiing:The ladies' 7.5 km + 7.5 km skiathlon has just started! Skiers must do two laps around two different courses, each course 3.75 kilometers. The skiers switch skies between the two. 8:11 — The medal events that will take place today... 8:00 — Good morning! The Winter Olympics are kicking into full gear after the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang. Below is some of the imagery from the opening festivities! The opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyongchang was held at the Olympic Stadium, starting with fireworks on a frigid evening in South Korea. While the weather was often too warm in the previous two Games in Vancouver and Sochi, this should not be a problem this time around. As is the case with all Olympic hosts, South Korea took the opportunity presented by the opening ceremony to present something of its culture and traditions to the world. As is the tradition at both the Winter and Summer Olympic Games, Greece, the ancient home of the Olympics, are the first contingent to enter the stadium for the opening ceremony. Alpine skier Sophia Ralli led what is a realtively small Greek continent into the stadium in Pyeongchang. The dignitaries watched the opening ceremony from their own VIP stand. Bottom left is German International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach, to his right, South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany is represented by President Frank-Walter Steinmeier (top right). German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier was witness to a little bit of history as Kim Yo Jong, sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shook the hand of South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany were led into the Olympic stadium by nordic-combined gold medalist from Sochi four years ago, Eric Frenzel. Germany's flagbearer was chosen in part by a popular vote on the internet, as he beat four other nominees. Ghana has sent an athlete to the Winter Olympic Games for just the second time. Akwasi Frimpong, who will be competing in the Skeleton, carried the flag into the Olympic Stadium. Downhill skier Kwame Nkrumah-Acheampong had previously represented Ghana at the 2010 Vancouver Games. There are also several other Africans competing at the Games, including from South Africa, Nigeria and Eritrea. The International Olympic Committee has banned Russia from these Winter Games over its alleged state-sponsored doping program. However, 169 carefully screened athletes have been invited to compete under a neutral flag. The "Olympic Athletes from Russia" followed the Olympic flag into the stadium. Tongan cross-country skier Pita Taufatofua stole the show when he entered the stadium bare-chested, despite sub-zero temperatures. The 34-year-old had caused a stir at the 2016 Rio Games when he oiled himself up and went topless as Tonga's flag-bearer. Taufatofua, who competed in taekwondo in Rio, had originally planned to keep his shirt on in the freezing cold — but obviously changed his mind... In a gesture of peace, the host South Koreans entered the stadium together with their neighbors from North Korea. The athletes from the bitter rivals marched into the venue under a unified Korean flag. IOC President Thomas Bach used his short address to thank the Koreans for entering as a united team. He also called on the around 3,000 athletes to "inspire us all to live together in peace and harmony despite all the differences we have." Then he gave way to South Korean President Moon, who declared the Winter Games open. There was a time when an athlete could simply walk up to the cauldron with a torch and light the Olympic Flame. Now, though, no self-respecting host would allow the Flame to be lit in such a mundane manner. South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna, who won gold in Vancouver and silver in Sochi, lit the fuse, setting off a tower of fire that shot up to the Olympic cauldron — lighting the Olympic Flame. Author: Chuck Penfold