Afghan President Ashraf Ghani offered the Taliban unconditional peace talks and the possibility of political recognition during an international conference in Kabul on Wednesday. "The government offers peace negotiations to the Taliban without any conditions," Ghani said at the second "Kabul Process" conference. The first Kabul Process took place in 2017. Officials from 25 countries are attending the event to discuss ways to end a more than 16-year-old conflict between the US-backed Afghan government and the Taliban. The Islamist militant group ruled Afghanistan before a US-led alliance forcibly removed it from power 2001. Read more: Is the US pressure pushing Taliban toward peace? A massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German Embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack, but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past. The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses. In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike. US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman. But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Review of the Constitution Ghani said the government would recognize the Taliban as a legitimate political group if it accepted a ceasefire, entered peace talks and recognized the government and rule of law. Taliban leaders were not invited to the conference and have so far refused to enter direct peace negotiations with the government. Ghani added that Taliban members would also be able to get Afghan passports and a Kabul office. In exchange, the government would agree to release Taliban prisoners, remove sanctions against the group and agree to a review of the Afghan Constitution. Read more: Taliban militants claim responsibility for attack on Kabul hotel Softer line President Ghani has regularly called the Taliban "terrorists" and "rebels" in the past. At last year's Kabul Process conference, he warned the Taliban that peace talks were not "an open-ended offer" and that it was the group's "last chance" to accept talks. But speaking on Wednesday, he laced his offer with a less belligerent tone: "Taliban  leaders and all members, the decision is in your hands. Accept peace, come to the negotiating table and let us build this country together." Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2tGaJ amp/kms (Reuters, dpa, AP)