The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) opened an anti-doping case against Russian curler Alexander Krushelnitsky, according to a statement released Monday. Krushelnitsky, who won a bonze medal at the Winter Olympics with his wife Anastasia Bryzgalova in the mixed doubles, tested positive for a banned substance at the Games, Russian curlers said after their coach informed them of the case late Sunday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sk6J Read more: Russian ice skaters baffled over Olympic ban The athlete's "A Sample" tested positive for trace amounts of meldonium, a substance that has been banned since 2016, Russian media reported. A number of Russian athletes took the drug, originally a heart medication, before it was banned. Read more: CAS rejects dozens of appeals from Russian athletes The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said if a Russian athlete's failed doping test is confirmed, it could keep Russia's banned team from being reinstated and marching under the country's flag at the closing ceremony in Pyeongchang. "If confirmed, this will be taken into account [by the implementation panel] along with many, many other factors. There are several ifs along the way before we get there," IOC spokesman Mark Adams said. The results of the athlete's "B Sample" are due to be released later on Monday. Krushelnitsky's case is the second one to occur at the Pyeongchang Olympics after Japanese short-track speedskater Kai Saito tested positive for a banned diuretic. Read more: Winter Olympics — Ester Ledecka delivers one of the all-time Olympic upsets Krushelnitsky won a bronze medal with his wife in the mixed doubles 'Alexander is not a stupid man' The latest doping allegations rocked the Pyeongchang Olympics, with fellow Russian curlers and sports officials expressing shock and disbelief. Women's curling team member Viktoria Moiseeva said the issue "came upon us like a storm. We never thought it would happen in curling. All of us hope that the B-test is negative." Sergei Belanov, the women's curling coach for the Olympic Athletes of Russia (OAR), defended Krushelnitsky by saying meldonium provides no benefits for the sport. "No benefits. No advantage," said Belonov. "And I don't believe a young man chooses risk or will use the same drug that has been around for two years. It's stupid and Alexander is not a stupid man." Read more: Opinion — Russians have right to be jubilant after IOC and WADA farce The opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyongchang was held at the Olympic Stadium, starting with fireworks on a frigid evening in South Korea. While the weather was often too warm in the previous two Games in Vancouver and Sochi, this should not be a problem this time around. As is the case with all Olympic hosts, South Korea took the opportunity presented by the opening ceremony to present something of its culture and traditions to the world. As is the tradition at both the Winter and Summer Olympic Games, Greece, the ancient home of the Olympics, are the first contingent to enter the stadium for the opening ceremony. Alpine skier Sophia Ralli led what is a realtively small Greek continent into the stadium in Pyeongchang. The dignitaries watched the opening ceremony from their own VIP stand. Bottom left is German International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach, to his right, South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany is represented by President Frank-Walter Steinmeier (top right). German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier was witness to a little bit of history as Kim Yo Jong, sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shook the hand of South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany were led into the Olympic stadium by nordic-combined gold medalist from Sochi four years ago, Eric Frenzel. Germany's flagbearer was chosen in part by a popular vote on the internet, as he beat four other nominees. Ghana has sent an athlete to the Winter Olympic Games for just the second time. Akwasi Frimpong, who will be competing in the Skeleton, carried the flag into the Olympic Stadium. Downhill skier Kwame Nkrumah-Acheampong had previously represented Ghana at the 2010 Vancouver Games. There are also several other Africans competing at the Games, including from South Africa, Nigeria and Eritrea. The International Olympic Committee has banned Russia from these Winter Games over its alleged state-sponsored doping program. However, 169 carefully screened athletes have been invited to compete under a neutral flag. The "Olympic Athletes from Russia" followed the Olympic flag into the stadium. Tongan cross-country skier Pita Taufatofua stole the show when he entered the stadium bare-chested, despite sub-zero temperatures. The 34-year-old had caused a stir at the 2016 Rio Games when he oiled himself up and went topless as Tonga's flag-bearer. Taufatofua, who competed in taekwondo in Rio, had originally planned to keep his shirt on in the freezing cold — but obviously changed his mind... In a gesture of peace, the host South Koreans entered the stadium together with their neighbors from North Korea. The athletes from the bitter rivals marched into the venue under a unified Korean flag. IOC President Thomas Bach used his short address to thank the Koreans for entering as a united team. He also called on the around 3,000 athletes to "inspire us all to live together in peace and harmony despite all the differences we have." Then he gave way to South Korean President Moon, who declared the Winter Games open. There was a time when an athlete could simply walk up to the cauldron with a torch and light the Olympic Flame. Now, though, no self-respecting host would allow the Flame to be lit in such a mundane manner. South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna, who won gold in Vancouver and silver in Sochi, lit the fuse, setting off a tower of fire that shot up to the Olympic cauldron — lighting the Olympic Flame. Author: Chuck Penfold Russian Curling Federation president Dmitry Svishchev told the Associated Press that it was possible an athlete's food or drink could have been spiked shortly before the Games, suggesting that a rival Russian athlete or someone who was politically-motivated could have carried it out. "It can't happen at the Olympic Village because everyone eats the same canteen food," he said. "It could happen at training camp or in the intervening period ... There's a possibility of it being something within the team, that something happened during training camp, or as a political means to achieve some goal." Russia was banned from participating at the Pyeongchang Olympics in December following an investigation into state-sponsored doping. However, certain clean athletes were allowed to take part representing the OAR, wearing neutral uniforms and without the Russian flag. The IOC previously said it would lift the ban at the end of the Games, allowing the athletes to display the Russian flag at the closing ceremony. The results of Krushelnitsky's test could upend these plans. Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova received a 15-month suspension after testing positive for meldonium in 2016. rs/ng (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.