US President Donald Trump on Friday praised former aide Rob Porter for his "good job" at the White House. Trump stressed that Porter, who is facing allegations of domestic violence by his two former wives, had maintained his innocence. "He says he's innocent, and I think you have to remember that. He said very strongly yesterday that he's innocent," Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. "It's obviously a tough time for him. He did a very good job in the White House. And we hope he has a wonderful career," Trump added. "But we absolutely wish him well." Trump, however, did not express any sympathy for Porter's former wives, who earlier this week went public with their allegations, providing graphic accounts of the verbal and physical abuse. Read more: Opinion: One year of Donald Trump — time for a sober examination Excerpts published by US and British news outlets from American journalist Michael Wolff's new book "Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House" about US President Donald Trump's administration have offered a look into the inner workings of the White House. From finding comfort in McDonald's hamburgers to Ivanka's presidential dreams, here are some excerpts from the book. "Shortly after 8 p.m. on Election Night, when the unexpected trend – Trump might actually win – seemed confirmed, Don Jr. told a friend that his father, or DJT, as he calls him, looked as if he had seen a ghost. Melania was in tears – and not of joy. There was, in the space of little more than an hour ... a befuddled Trump morphing into a disbelieving Trump and then into a horrified Trump." "Balancing risk against reward, both Jared (Kushner) and Ivanka decided to accept roles in the West Wing over the advice of almost everyone they knew ... Between themselves, the two had made an earnest deal: If sometime in the future the opportunity arose, she'd be the one to run for president. The first woman president, Ivanka entertained, would not be Hillary Clinton; it would be Ivanka Trump." "He had a longtime fear of being poisoned, one reason why he liked to eat at McDonald's – nobody knew he was coming and the food was safely pre-made." "The real enemy, (Bannon) said, was China. China was the first front in a new Cold War. China's everything. Nothing else matters. We don't get China right, we don't get anything right. This whole thing is very simple. China is where Nazi Germany was in 1929 to 1930. The Chinese, like the Germans, are the most rational people in the world, until they're not." "(Donald Trump Jr, Jared Kushner and campaign manager Paul Manafort) thought it was a good idea to meet with a foreign government inside Trump Tower in the conference room on the 25th floor – with no lawyers … Even if you thought that this was not treasonous, or unpatriotic, or bad shit, and I happen to think it's all of that, you should have called the FBI immediately," Bannon said. "Once he lost, Trump would be both insanely famous and a martyr to Crooked Hillary. His daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared would be international celebrities. Steve Bannon would become the de facto head of the tea-party movement ... Melania Trump, who had been assured by her husband that he wouldn't become president, could return to inconspicuously lunching. Losing was winning." White House inaction in question The scandal has rocked the White House, with Chief of Staff John Kelly reportedly offering to resign his post over his handling of the allegations. Porter resigned on Wednesday amid questions about why it took so long for White House to act after the accusations came to light. Some senior White House officials were generally aware of the allegations before Trump found out from a report in the Daily Mail, Reuters news agency reported, citing a source familiar with the matter. Responding to the report, Kelly initially defended Porter, calling him a man of "integrity." Read more: Opinion: Steve Bannon's demise is not the end of Trumpism Kelly later said in a statement he was shocked by "new" allegations against Porter and stressed that domestic violence is unacceptable. White House deputy press secretary Raj Shah on Thursday said Kelly was not "fully aware" of the extent of the allegations against Porter until photographs of one of his former wives with a black eye emerged. But he conceded the situation could have been better handled. "It's fair to say we all could have done better over the last few hours or last few days in dealing with this situation," Shah said on Thursday. Read more: Why Donald Trump's immigration deal is a hard sell Rob Porter was yet to get a security clearance for his White House job Pending security clearance Porter had regular close contact with Trump as staff secretary. His job involved reviewing all documents signed by the president, from legislation to executive orders. The Harvard law School graduate somehow managed to carry on in the high-profile position that involved access to classified information despite not having a mandatory security clearance. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was still conducting his background check as required for the clearance. Jennie Willoughby, one of Porter's ex-wives, said in an interview with a US broadcaster on Friday that she told the FBI during Porter's background check that he had been abusive toward her. "Of course, I was part of the background check and I was completely honest with what my experience of the marriage, including telling the police instances of abuse or police contact," said Willoughby. Second aide resigns Reflecting the widening  scandal, a second White House staffer resigned late on Friday over domestic abuse claims. David Sorensen, a speechwriter, stepped down after his wife said he was abusive. Sorensen denied the claims, but said he didn't want the matter to become a distraction.. "I didn't want the White House to have to deal with this distraction. It should be able to focus on continuing President Trump's historic accomplishments for the American people," he told the Associated Press. ap/bw (Reuters, AP, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2X8ON