Paderborn 0-6 Bayern Munich (Coman 19', Lewandowski 25', Kimmich 42', Tolisso 55', Robben 86', 89') Any distant hopes Paderborn had of pulling off the upset of the decade were extinguished well before half time. Paderborn sit four points clear at the top of Bundesliga 3, but were brutally exposed by a Bayern side who were in no mood to be charitable. Coach Jupp Heynckes is chasing another treble and named a strong team in his pursuit of the last four in a competition Bayern have won only once in the last three seasons. Bayern were completely dominant in the first half on a freezing night in Paderborn, but the game could have taken a very different path had the officials not incorrectly flagged for offside in the eighth minute, disallowing what was a legitimate Paderborn opener. That proved to be the only time Paderborn got close to worrying Bayern, who opened the scoring in the 19th minute through Kingsley Coman, who tapped in from close range after Thomas Müller’s shot was saved. Robert Lewandowski, who returned to the starting line-up after being rested at Mainz on the weekend, notched the second, finishing into the far corner after Coman turned provider by picking out the Pole. Bayern were out of sight before the break as Kimmich broke the Paderborn offside trap and casually beat keeper Michael Ratajczak at his near post, giving him the eyes in the process. Corentin Tolisso, a first half substitute for the injured Müller, made it four soon after the break with a header from a James Rodriguez corner, before Arjen Robben scored two late goals to put the icing on the cake, and ensure Bayern’s smooth path to the last four.  As it happened: We didn't quite get the jaw-dropping upset some may have been hoping for, but we were treated to a thoroughly entertaining cup tie. Bayern put in another sterling performance as they continue to be a cut above in German football and are in the final four as they look to clinch a 19th German Cup title. Paderborn, meanwhile, will have caught have caught the eye of many a neutral and will continue their quest for promotion into the Bundesliga 2. One final thought from a Bayern fan: Bayern midfield Joshua Kimmich to Sky Sports Germany: I have to say, Paderborn were brutally courageous. Other teams would have sat back and tried to shut up shop, but they tried to play football. For my goal I looked to see if I could pick out a teammate. I waited and waited and in the end the keeper had left his near post open so I took the invitation. FULL TIME! BAYERN CRUISE IN THE SEMIFINALS! From the moment they took the lead, the result was never in doubt for Bayern. 90' - A quick word for Paderborn who have been incredibly good value tonight. The scoreline is harsh on the hosts. Despite being two leagues below Bayern, they haven't shut up shop and have instead taken the game to the Bundesliga leaders in an attempt to play football. The problem is when you do that against Bayern, their class shows. Paderborn have a lot to be proud of though, even if that sounds cliche. 88' - GOAL ROBBEN AT THE DOUBLE! Bayern break the offside trap and Ribery unselfishly tees up Robben for his second of the evening. 87' - I have to say, Jerome Boateng's live tweeting has complimented the action well tonight. 86' - GOAL ROBBEN DOES WHAT ROBBEN DOES! Robben has had a great game and caps it off with a trademark finish, curling a first-time effort into the top corner. 85' - PICTURE PERFECT! 80' - I really hope Paderborn get themselves a goal in this one. It's the only thing that's missing from the game as Tietz is a stud's width away from poking home a consolation effort. 73' - Paderborn get the ball in from out wide, but it sails just over the head of substitute Tietz. Another chance goes begging. 70' - There's a great chant being sung by the Paderborn fans to the effect of "we'll win the league title, we'll win the league title, but we couldn't give a **** about the cup". It's much better in German. 67' - Alaba gets into a good position down the left and plays in a cross that is so good that it somehow goes between the keeper and the goal before going out for a throw on the far side. It almost crept in you know. What a ball. Shame there was no one on the end of it. 65' - NOT WHAT PADERBORN WERE HOPING FOR 61' - CHANCE! Robben. Left-foot. You know how he does. Tipped over the bar magnificently by Ratajczak, but the corner comes to nothing. 60' - A BOLD PREDICTION! 56' - WOODWORK! My heart goes out to Paderborn fans. They can have few complaints with being four goals down, but they will be wondering how they haven't scored as Zolinski sees his deflected effort come back off the post, while the follow-up effort is flashed off target. They really do deserve a goal. 55' - GOAL TOLISSO GRABS A FOURTH! James takes the resulting corner and, having just been denied, Tolisso rises highest to plant a header beyond Ratajczak. 54' - STRONG SAVE! Paderborn's high line is broken by Vidal's well-timed through ball to Kimmich. The youngster finds Tolisso whose first-time shot is tipped wide by Ratajczak. 52' - CHANCE! A bit of sloppy defending from Paderborn almost proves costly. Coman beats two men out wide before the ball finds it way to Lewandowski via Alaba. The star striker only had one thing on his mind, but his shot fizzes wide. 49' - Paderborn have made a great start to the second half and go close again as Ritter tees up Michel on the edge of the area. Unfortuantely the striker can't get his shot through all the bodies in the box and Ulreich is able to claim under pressure to quell the danger. 46' - HUGE CHANCE FOR PADERBORN! A early free-kick is whipped in by Ritter and Schonlau has to do better. He's unmarked eight yards out, but can't find the target with his header. What a chance. What a miss. SECOND HALF! We're back underway in Paderborn. The hosts have made a change at the break with Tietz coming on in place of Wassey. THAT FEELING WHEN... you open the scoring with a simple finish. Kingsley Coman is having a breakout season for Bayern Munich. HALF TIME! If you haven't seen a clip of Hummels' pass for Kimmich's goal, I urge you to do so. A thing of beauty. HALF TIME! Apart from losing Müller to injury on the half-hour mark, that was a near-perfect first 45 minutes for Bayern Munich. Goals from Coman, Lewandowski and Kimmich have put them firmly in command. The priority now for Paderborn is to keep the scoreline respectable. 42' - GOAL BAYERN MAKE IT THREE! One of the more bizarre goals you'll see. A lovely outside-of-the-boot pass over the top from Mats Hummels finds Kimmich. Teammates are lining up for a chance to score, but after hesitating for several seconds, the right-back decides to sneak the ball in at the near post himself to make it 3-0. Simple, but effective. 40' - THIS GUY! 38' - Bayern give the ball away from a corner and Paderborn break at pace. Alaba does well to prevent the ball going behind for a corner as the chance comes to nothing. It's promising without an end product from the hosts right now. 35' - Paderborn are awarded a free-kick in a very promising position 25 yards out from goal. Ritter chances his arm and bends his effort just wide of the far post. Ulreich looked rooted to the spot and may have struggled to get anything on it had the set-piece found the target. 34' - NOT FROM US! 32' - SUBSTITUTION! Jupp Heynckes is forced to make an early change as it appears Müller has picked up a knock. He's straight down the tunnel as Tolisso comes on in his place. 30' - The quickfire double has understandably taken the wind out of Paderborn's sails somewhat. 28' - Paderborn right-back Herzenbruch is having a torrid time dealing with Coman. Then again, so have some of the world football's best right backs! The Frenchman has now been involved in 13 goals in all competitions since making his move permanent in the summer. 25' GOAL LEWANDOWSKI STRIKES! Coman turns provider, beating his man out wide before picking out Lewandowski in the box. The Pole does well to bring the ball under his spell and produces a finish to boot, finding the far corner to add to Bayern's lead. A lovely take. 21' SOMEONE'S HAPPY! 20' - GOAL BAYERN LEAD! tIt was anything but pretty, but Bayern won't mind. Müller breaks the offside trap to catch Paderborn's backline at sixes and sevens and, after several botched clearances and a Robben miskick, Coman is on hand to poke home the loose ball from close range. Scrappy! 18' - WHAT A SAVE! Bayern go agonizingly close to opening the scoring. Lewandowski again loses his marker in the box and is seconds away from celebrating before Ratajczak sticks out a hand at full stretch to claw the header away. 17' - SIDE NETTING! Robben manages to weave his way to the byline, but with no teammates in space around him, can only find the side netting from the tightest of angles. Still it's the closest Bayern have come so far. 16' - Credit to Paderborn who are making a real game of this. They haven't been afraid to get stuck in and, while allowing the encounter to be played at this pace is dangerous over the course of 90 minutes, you have to admire their courage. 13' - PENALTY SHOUT! A long throw for Paderborn causes confusion in the Bayern box. No one wants to deal with it, but it was very unconvincing claim for a spot kick as there looked to be little contact between Coman and Michel. 11' - The home fans are getting right behind their side, who are enjoying their most positive period of play thus far. Three successvie corners come to nothing, but the third-tier side certainly aren't shying away from the task at hand which has made for a fantastic opening 10 minutes. 8' - GOAL DISALLOWED! Paderborn try something off the training ground and catch Bayern napping at the back. Unfortunately for the hosts, the offside flag is up on the far side to deny Schonlau, who had the ball in the back of the net after seeing his intial effort saved by Ulreich. What a start that would have been! 6' - The German record titleholders are moving the ball around nicely as they probe Paderborn's backline. The hosts are trying to sit deep, but inviting more pressure may not be the best approach. Alaba and Coman are already combining to great effect down the left, while Robben is looking very lively in the opening exchanges. 3' - Paderborn survive an early scare! Robert Lewandowski earns the first corner of the game and after it is worked short to Joshua Kimmich, the Pole pops up unmarked at the back post, but can't beat Ratajczak with his header. The hosts need to keep a closer eye on Lewy. KICK OFF! Sky commentator Wolff-Christoph Fuss claims we're going to see one of two things, "either one of the greatest upsets in the history of this competition or Bayern book their place in the German Cup semifinals with relative ease". Who are you backing? 18:29 Boateng playing the role of fan 18:28 Heynckes "impressed" by Paderborn In his pre-match press conference, Heynckes was complimentary of Paderborn, who have endured some turbulent times since being relegated from the Bundesliga, but now seem to be on the up and up. "I'm very impressed with Paderborn, how they play football. They have great structure, break quickly, put in the hard yards, are aggressive and have several talented players within their ranks," said the 72-year-old. 18:25 Rummenigge calls for composure Talking to Sky Sport Germany before the game, Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge has called for his side to produce a "clinical and composed performance" against tonight's hosts. 18:20 The team news is in! Paderborn head coach has made three alterations to the side that drew 1-1 with Sonnenhof Großaspach with Ratajczak, Wassey and Zolinski replacing Zingerle, Yeboah and Tietz. Meanwhile, his counterpart Jupp Heynckes has made seven changes to the side that beat Mainz on Saturday with several stars including Vidal, Kimmich and Lewandowski. Paderborn XI: Ratajczak - Boeder, Schonlau, Strohdiek, Herzenbruch - Wassey, Krauße - Zolinski, Ritter, Antwi-Adjej - Michel Bayern XI: Ulreich - Kimmich, Hummels, Süle, Alaba - Vidal - Robben, James, Müller, Coman - Lewandowski 18:15 Cup fever! Good evening one and all! The German Cup quarterfinals are always good for an upset and tonight, third-tier Paderborn are hoping to shock the world when they take on Bayern Munich, who themselves are in the hunt for a 19th German Cup title. These two sides met twice during the 2014/15 Bundesliga campaign and, unsurprisingly, Bayern made easy work of Paderborn, picking up a 6-0 win on the road, before putting four answered goals past them on home soil.