Taking a bus or tram in Germany without a valid ticket is a crime, according to Germany's criminal code. And it is one that could have severe consequences: 7,600 repeat offenders were sent to jail in 2016. When you get caught dodging a fare the first time, you will usually only have to pay a fee of €60 ($75). That also goes for minors who can be expected to know that they need a ticket to ride the bus, and for people who have a ticket for themselves, but not for their bike or large dog. If you get caught for a third time, you will be reported to the police. Then you either have to pay a higher fine, or go to jail for up to one year. Read more: Theft from German public transport up 25 percent From a purely practical standpoint, fare-dodging is not exactly difficult in Germany. There is usually no barrier at the entrance of bus and tram stops, unlike in subway or tube stations in New York or London. You will not encounter the friendly conductors who check your tickets on every ride either. Even if you are a frequent public transport user, you might only see them a couple of times a year. But it is still illegal. There are stickers on busses, trams and stops to remind passengers in no uncertain words. And yet, calls for fare-dodging to be downgraded from a crime to a misdemeanor are growing ever louder. The Berlin city judiciary alone dealt with 40,000 fare-dodging cases last year Supporters of the move say that it would radically reduce the workload of police officers and judges. Peter Biesenbach, justice minister in Germany's most populous state North Rhine-Westphalia, said that over one-in-ten verdicts handed down in his state dealt with fare-dodgers. Biesenbach, a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), believes the judicial resources required would be better used to "take care of burglaries and handbag thefts." The German Association of Judges (DRB) hasn't said outright they plan to downgrade fare-dodging, but they are looking into it. They demand public transport authorities do more in the way of prevention. "Entrance checks are the best way to prevent fare-dodgers from riding trams and busses and to lighten the workload of the judiciary," the DRB said in a statement. "If transport authorities don't set up these entry checks for economic reasons, the taxpayer should not have to pay the price." Read more: Why the German judiciary is overwhelmed and short-staffed Laymen may not recognize them at first glance, but the lower air space is full of obstacles. That's why Lufthansa has developed a database listing all known obstacles - worldwide. Pilots can see power lines, skyscrapers and windmills in real time. It's particularly useful for helicopter pilots in bad weather. Sensors can detect almost everything that can go wrong in an airplane. Only the pilot himself has not yet become the object of technological scrutiny. The A-PiMod cockpit is likely to change that. Developed by the German aerospace center DLR, it observes gestures, eye movements and the controls handled by the pilot and draws conclusions: Is the pilot awake, healthy and fit to do his job right? Volkswagen's "Emergency Assist" system works in a similar fashion: It continually checks the activities of the driver and intervenes if necessary. It will reduce the gas, take over the steering to make sure the car stays in its lane and even hit the brakes if it's necessary to avoid a crash. In the case of dropping off at the wheel it can save lives. This is another systems that intervenes when humans don't. The dguard eCall-system for motor cyclists will detect a severe crash and automatically send an emergency call to first responders. eCall already exists for cars. For new cars it will become mandatory in the EU in 2018. Motorcyclists, who are more endangered, are exempted from this rule. They have to buy it if they want the safety. Many people don't feel very secure in busses and trams - especially at night, when there aren't many people around. To make sure that help comes quickly in the case of medical emergencies, violence or crimes several transport agencies, universities and research institutes have joined forces and developed a digital emergency management system called InREAKT. Ghostbuster is the name of this gadget. It will detect ghost drivers at freeway exits - and alert them about their mistake. At the same time it will send out an emergency call and warn other drivers of the coming danger. Once installed, it will work for ages - powered by solar cells. The system was developed by Daniel Gillo, Julian Neu and Benjamin Kirsch from the university of Saarland. wuidi is designed to avoid accidents with wild animals. In Germany alone, such an accident happens every two minutes. A driver entering a potentially dangerous area will receive a notice - on the mobile phone or the GPS device. The data is more up to date than a old fashion traffic sign. wuidi also takes into account past accidents, weather and the rutting season. Almost everybody who has eveb relied on a GPS device knows the situation: The device suggests an alternative route that's even more jammed than the freeway. PSIroads-MDS is designed to solve the problem. The traffic management system sends different drivers to a variety of different routes. That's good for the travellers and for the environment, since there are fewer traffic jams. Traffic education is most effective when kids can relate to it. The Fraunhofer IVI, therefore, developed FAPS, a system that identifies the most dangerous spots around schools and neighborhoods - based on real accident data. Then, schools receive this information to prepare educational projects - based on real threats. HIGH-TOOL is designed to help politicians and planners in arriving at educated conclusions. The analytical tool can help estimate the aftereffects of today's decisions into the decades to come. It can process about 200 variables for urban planners. And it's not only made for politicians: Citizen initiatives and others can download and use the open source software - and develop their own ideas. Author: Fabian Schmidt 'There have to be clear consequences' On the other side of the tracks, the transport authorities vehemently oppose decriminalizing fare-dodging. Justice should not depend on the state budget, Oliver Wolff, director of the Association of German Transport Companies (VDV), told news agency dpa. "I find this to be a declaration of bankruptcy by the state," Wolff said. The VDV also claims that erecting entrance barriers would make little sense, since hop-on, hop-off busses and trams make up the bulk of public transport in Germany. Barriers would not work at stops that can be accessed from all different directions above-ground. The public need to be aware that fare-dodging is not to be taken lightly, Wolff said. "Riding without a valid ticket has to remain a crime according to the criminal code," he clarified. "There must be clear, deterrant consequences for people who continuously use services without paying for them. That's why a jail sentence is absolutely necessary as the final resort." Going to jail for riding without a ticket? Some say that's a necessary deterrent Discussion in Berlin The VDV director is not too worried about over-worked judges either. He points out that only a small fraction of fare-dodging cases ever get drawn out to a degree that would actually take up a lot of an attorney's or judge's time. According to Wolff, the 7,600 fare-dodgers sent to jail in 2016 amounted to a mere three percent of all those who had been reported for repeatedly riding without a ticket. Based on those numbers, "you really can't talk about the judiciary or the prisons being stretched too thin," Wolff said. Next Monday, Wolff, Biesenbach and other legal and transport experts will debate the issue at a public panel discussion in Berlin. How it will develop from there is not yet clear. So to be on the safe side, passengers should probably just buy a ticket. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2aul9