"To serve as president in Venice is an immense honor and responsibility that I accept with respect and gratitude," Mexican director Guillermo del Toro said in a statement Monday, as his name was revealed as jury chair for this year's Venice Film Festival. "Venice is a window to world cinema and the opportunity to celebrate its power and cultural relevance." Alberto Barbera, the director of the festival, praised del Toro for his "lively imagination, uncommon sensitivity and his trust in the power of images," saying that he will be a "genial, inquisitive and enthusiastic Jury President." "Guillermo Del Toro personifies generosity, a love for movies past or future, and a passion for the kind of cinema that can spark emotions, affect people and, at the same time, make them reflect," Barbera added in a press release. Read more: Oscar nomination for Kenyan film on al-Shabab bus attack "The Shape of Water," a Cold War-era fairytale, won the Golden Lion in Venice last year and is the top Oscar contender Del Toro's prize-winning fairy tale The Mexican director is considered a front-runner at the upcoming Academy Awards in March, where "The Shape of Water," his tribute to the horror films of his youth, will compete in 13 categories, including those for best picture and best director. The movie's plot revolves around a mute woman working in a remote US government laboratory where she falls in love with a monstrous creature hidden there. The film has already won the Golden Lion award at the 2017 Venice festival and received Golden Globes for best direction and best original score in February. The Venice Film Festival is the oldest film festival in the world. Its 75th edition runs from August 29 to September 8. Read more: Greta Gerwig: Oscar-nominated female director still a rarity in Hollywood  When Katja's husband and six-year-old son are killed in a bomb attack by two neo-Nazis, her life collapses. But the woman, portrayed by the German actress Diane Kruger, seeks revenge in Fatih Akin's "In the Fade." The German director received the prize for best motion picture in a foreign language. "This is yours, this is ours," said Akin when he received the award from Kruger. The Irish playwright, screenwriter and filmmaker Martin McDonagh was undoubtedly the winner of the evening, as his film "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" picked up four awards. He wrote, produced and directed the drama and received the awards for best screenplay and best motion picture. In "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri," Frances McDormand plays Mildred Hayes, a mother whose daughter was raped and murdered. When the police fail to find a suspect, Hayes calls the public's attention to the unsolved crime with billboards. McDormand received the award for best actress and Sam Rockwell (both pictured above) won in the category of best supporting actor. Unlike the Oscars, the Golden Globes grant two prizes in the best film category: one for best drama and another for best comedy or musical. While "Billboards" dominated the drama category, filmmaker and actress Greta Gerwig (third from left) clenched the best musical or comedy award for "Lady Bird," along with main actress Saoirse Ronan (right). Gerwig's film is a coming-of-age tragicomedy in which a young, unconventional woman, portrayed by Saoirse Ronan (above), seeks her way into life. She can't cope with her mother's expectations and learns that her father has recently lost his job and battles depression. Ronan won her first Golden Globe ever for her performance in the movie. Was the Mexican film director really as enthusiastic after the Globes as seen in this picture? With seven nominations, his film "The Shape of Water" was the front-runner of this year's ceremony, but the story of the relationship between Elisa, a mute woman, and a mysterious creature in a classified lab received "only" two awards: for best direction and best original score. British actor Gary Oldman won the Golden Globe in the category best actor in a drama, for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in "Darkest Hour." The war film follows the early days of the Prime Minister, as Hitler closes in on Britain during World War II. James Franco won the Golden Globe for best actor in a musical or comedy for his role of the infamous Hollywood outsider Tommy Wiseau in "The Disaster Artist." Wiseau's film "The Room" (2003) was called "the worst movie ever," but has gained cult following since then. Beyond the awards, the campaigns triggered by the Harvey Weinstein case were on everybody's lips during the evening: the #metoo and "Time's Up" movements inspired many speeches during the ceremony and were a ubiquitous element of the gala. The many sexual scandals of the last few months had an impact on the red carpet, too, which turned black this year, as many guests of the ceremony chose to wear all-black attires. Their aim was to show solidarity with all victims of sexual harassment. The famous American entertainer also appeared in black at this year's Golden Globes as she went to accept the Cecil B DeMille Award for lifetime achievement. Winfrey said in her speech, "For too long, women have not been heard or believed if they dare speak the truth to the power of those men. But their time is up. Their time is up!" The Golden Globes do not focus exclusively on the silver screen, but acknowledge great achievements on TV as well, which is another difference between the Globes and the Oscars. This year, the US series "The Handmaid's Tale" was honored with the award for best drama series, and its lead actress Elisabeth Moss also received the award for best actress. When the now 101-year-old Kirk Douglas turned up on stage, it was one of the highlights of the gala. The film veteran took to the stage accompanied by his daughter-in-law, actress Catherine Zeta-Jones, to present an award. The audience rose to a standing ovation and celebrated the career of the Hollywood maestro for several minutes. Author: Jochen Kürten (jt) jt/eg (with dpa)