The Berlin International Film Festival's top award, the Golden Bear, as well as the Silver Bears in several different categories were handed out at a ceremony on Saturday. The International Jury definitely didn't follow the advice of critics by picking "Touch Me Not," directed by Romanian artist and director Adina Pintilie. Blurring the borders between documentary and fiction, her movie is an open exploration of physical intimacy and sexuality; its content shocked many viewers. Pintilie also won an award for best debut film earlier on during the ceremony. Among the 19 films running in the competition, the following works also obtained an award: Read more: Past Golden Bear winners: From Altman to Ang Lee German filmmaker and producer Tom Tykwer was head of the jury. The other jury members accompanying him in the task of selecting the winning films were Belgian actress Cécile de France, Chem Prado, photographer and former director of the Spanish National Cinemateque, US producer Adele Romanski, Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto and US film critic Stephanie Zacharek. Read more: Berlinale 2018: Meet the jury Marcelo Martinessi's award-winning "The Heiresses" is the first Paraguayan entry in the festival The independent jury awards The FIPRESCI jury, representing the International Film Critics Association, selected the Paraguayan film "The Heiresses," by Marcelo Martinessi. The movie centering on a middle-aged lesbian couple also obtained a nod from the queer community, winning the Teddy Readers' Award. German director Thomas Stuber's "In the Aisles" has already received two awards — the Guild Film Prize, whose jury is composed of members of the association of German Art House Cinemas, along with one from the Ecumenical Jury, which represents the international film organisations of the Protestant and Catholic Churches. The latter has additionally granted a special mention to Norway's "U — July 22," a controversial film about the 2011 mass murder in Norway directed by Erik Poppe. The Berliner Morgenpost Reader's Jury Award has been given to the Russian entry "Dovlatov," by Alexei German Jr.