Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, premier of the small western German state of Saarland, was nominated on Monday to take over as secretary general of Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), party sources told German media. Tauber is stepping down from the post after undergoing an operation for inflammatory bowel disease Kramp-Karrenbauer, one of Merkel's closest allies, is respected in the CDU for helping the party win Saarland's state election last year and played a key role in coalition talks between the conservatives and the Social Democrats (SPD). According to the German daily Süddeutsche Zeitung, Merkel and Kramp-Karrenbauer agreed she would take over the post months ago once it became clear that the current secretary general would not continue. The outgoing CDU secretary general, 43-year-old Peter Tauber, is stepping down from his post following a serious illness, party sources said on Sunday. In a blog post headlined "Why I'm making way for a new general secretary" - deliberately using the female form of the word - he announced his departure from the post on Monday, Tauber urged for the CDU to become "younger, more female and more diverse." "There are not enough young people, far too few women, and not enough Germans with an immigration background who are involved in our ranks," he wrote. Reputedly Merkel's choice as her future successor but lesser known across Germany, Kramp-Karrenbauer heads a CDU-SPD coalition as state premier in Saarland. Economic development that "leaves no one behind" is one of Kramp-Karrenbauer's policy planks. She also backed Merkel's tolerance toward asylum-seekers. At 37, the youngest and overtly determined Merkel usurper, Jens Spahn became a federal parliamentarian in 2002 and later the CDU's health spokesman until 2015. "Young, gay and conservative," concluded the magazine Stern. The hobby DJ duped Merkel by leading the passage of a resolution at a CDU conference in 2016 to quash limited-category dual citizenship granted to young foreigners since 2000. Germany's first female defense minister began her career in medicine, studying public health at Stanford University in the United States. Outspoken on family issues, von der Leyen sought gains for soldiers' families and during probes against far-right army suspects her "false esprit de corps" accusation upset some personnel. She also advocates closer EU defense links. Klöckner leads the CDU opposition in Rhineland-Palatinate, once the base of ex-chancellor Helmut Kohl and now led by the Social Democrats. The former "Wine Queen" is in Merkel's federal CDU executive and formerly studied political science and theology. Her stance tends to be conservative: opposing abortion, embryonic stem cell research and proposing an alternative plan to Merkel's refugee policy. The Merkel chancellery chief's espousal of her progressive policy mix grates with arch conservatives, for example, during Germany's 2015 refugee crisis. From Saarland, Altmaier first worked for the EU. The former environment minister, now 59, is renowned for his kitchen diplomacy. "Merkel's bodyguard" is a stickler for policy detail and is not averse to "green" ideas. Bavaria's survivalist state premier, 68, recently foiled a revolt in his CSU as it seeks to lure back jaded voters in a 2018 regional election. His ploy: acting as indispensable negotiator alongside Merkel at Berlin coalition talks. The rest of Germany is unlikely to want him as chancellor but his unrelenting objection to her policies, slated as too liberal, has calmed down conservatives. Hesse's former interior minister, and since 2010 its state premier, has twice "won" Big Brother awards from German data privacy advocates for propagating closer surveillance methods by police. The sports fan, 66, currently heads a CDU-Greens coalition government in Wiesbaden and in Merkel's CDU is one of five deputy chairpersons in her executive. Avowed European, liberal, but branded by his critics as too nice for politics: Laschet last year became CDU state premier of North Rhine-Westphalia. His win marked a major defeat for Social Democrats in Germany's 18 million-strong "coal" state. The Catholic and former journalist, 56, is also one of five deputies in Merkel's CDU executive — like Bouffier, Klöckner and von der Leyen. Author: Ian P. Johnson Rumored Merkel successor Kramp-Karrenbauer's nomination is significant as the center-right party starts to look for someone who will lead the party and possibly Germany after Merkel. Saarland's 55-year-old premier has led two successive state coalition governments with the CDU and the center-left SPD. Before becoming CDU party head and chancellor, Merkel was also the CDU's secretary general. Read more: Germany's Angela Merkel says she's still in control, despite coalition concessions to SPD Merkel's conservative CDU and its Bavarian sister-party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) struck a deal with the SPD to form another grand coalition government that has held power in Germany since 2013. Kramp-Karrenbauer is one of Merkel's closest allies in the party It's the first time Kramp-Karrenbauer, also referred to as "AKK," will take a role on the national political stage. The move could prove risky, however, as Kramp-Karrenbauer isn't a member of parliament and could put her in conflict with the CDU's powerful parliamentary group, reported Süddeutsche Zeitung. At a party congress in Berlin on February 26, CDU delegates will vote on the coalition deal, as well as decide the party's next secretary general. Read more: New members in Germany's SPD may play pivotal role in coalition deal's success The coalition deal's final fate, however, rests with the SPD's 464,000 party members who will start voting on the deal via a postal ballot on Tuesday. The results will be announced on March 4. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2a2Ol rs/ng (AFP, dpa, Reuters)