German public broadcaster ARD on Thursday published its monthly DeutschlandTrend survey, showing divided support in Germany for Angela Merkel serving a fourth term as chancellor, which appears likely as she is currently engaged in grand coalition talks with the Social Democrats and Bavaria's Christian Social Union. Fifty-one percent of respondents said they looked at the prospect positively, while 46 percent viewed it negatively. Those figures were more than 20 percentage points less than six months ago, a likely consequence of growing frustration at Merkel's attempts to form a government. According to the survey, 71 percent of respondents said they are losing patience with how long it has taken to form a government following elections in September. SPD hits record-low The survey also showed a significant loss of support for the Social Democratic Party (SPD). If elections were held this Sunday, the SPD would receive 18 percent of the vote, according to the study. Read more: Is Germany's political left coming apart at the seams? ARD reported it as the lower level of support for the party since they started asking that question. Since the center-left party's leadership announced its intention to explore "grand coalition" talks with Merkel's conservatives, the party has seen a decline in support. Divided on 'grand coalition' Last month, the SPD narrowly voted to move forward with formal coalition talks despite a major push from the party's youth wing against forming a new coalition with Merkel. The DeutschlandTrend survey also showed division among the SPD when it came to the prospect of forming a government with Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU). Fifty-two percent of respondents who identified as an SPD member said they see a "grand coalition" government positively, while 46 percent said they viewed it negatively. Read more: The major sticking points in Germany's upcoming coalition talks Schulz at a loss Meanwhile, SPD leader Martin Schulz has witnessed his popularity slide since his party announced plans to explore coalition talks with Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party the Christian Social Union CSU) in December. In the wake of the elections, Schulz had witnessed growing support as he prepared the party to be an opposition force against a so-called Jamaica coalition, which would have brought the CDU, CSU, the Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens together to govern. However, those talks broke down in November after the FDP walked out.