After hours of questioning by state and federal authorities, 19-year-old Nikolas Cruz has been charged with 17 counts of premeditated murder following a mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. According to a Broward County Sheriff's Office report, Cruz admitted to interrogating officers that he "began shooting students that he saw in the hallways and on school grounds" on Wednesday. Authorities have yet to determine a motive. Police have learned that Cruz trained at least once with the Republic of Florida (ROF) militia, a white supremacist group that seeks to turn Florida into a white ethno-state. Contacted by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a US-based non-governmental organization, ROF's leader Jordan Jereb confirmed that Cruz was associated with the group but that he had acted on his own in the shooting and had not been directed to do so by the group. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sim8 The FBI has also confirmed that it received a tip about Cruz last September. Agents were contacted by a Mississippi man named Ben Bennight after a user named Nikolas Cruz left a disturbing comment on his YouTube channel. The comment, which read "I'm going to be a professional school shooter," was investigated by the FBI but agents were unable to find any further information as to the time and location of the post. Threatening behavior Cruz, who had been expelled from the school last year for "disciplinary reasons" resulting from a fight with his ex-girlfriend's new boyfriend, was known for his threatening behavior among students and teachers. After his expulsion teachers were reportedly warned not to allow him onto school property with a backpack. Read more: 'Americans are allowing the insanity of gun violence' The shooter had few friends and many fellow students described him as a "loner" and a "weirdo." Authorities say Cruz had been receiving counseling at a local mental health clinic but stopped going to the clinic about a year ago. Cruz had made repeated threats toward other students, and police are scouring a series of disturbing social media posts in which he posed with a gun and wrote about killing animals. Cruz is originally from Long Island, New York, and moved to Broward County, Florida, with his parents and his brother. The boys became orphaned after their mother died of pneumonia late last year; their father died of a heart attack several years earlier. The boys had been in the care of a family friend, though Cruz moved in with a friend's family in late November citing unhappiness. Read more: 8 facts about gun control in the US Gun was locked up The family, which has not been named, knew that Cruz owned an AR-15 assault rifle and insisted that he keep it locked up, though he himself had a key to the safe. Read more: Opinion — Mass shootings in US show a government's failure to protect its people On Wednesday afternoon, Cruz — outfitted with a gas mask, smoke grenades and his assault rifle — pulled the fire alarm, sending students pouring out into the hallway at which point he began shooting. Cruz reportedly told investigators that he had decided to discard the AR-15 and vest during the commotion so as to blend in with the crowd. He was arrested shortly afterward off the school grounds without an incident. Prayers and condolences As has become routine in the wake of such shootings, politicians offered prayers and condolences to the victims' families and friends. US President Donald Trump made a point of stressing the shooter's mental health but avoided any mention of guns or gun laws during an address to the nation on Thursday. The attack was the 290th school shooting in the United States since 2013 and the 18th of 2018. It was the fifth deadliest school shooting to ever be carried out in the country. The antenna atop the One World Trade Center building in New York was lit in the rainbow colors of the LGBTQ flag to honor the 49 victims who died during a shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida on June 12. Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik used these assault rifles and pistols to kill 14 people in San Bernardino, California last December. Another 17 people were wounded. The couple, who left behind a baby less than a year old, were killed later during a shootout with police. Even for a country that has come to expect periodic mass shootings, the 2012 attack on Sandy Hook Elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut shocked the nation's collective conscience. Of the 27 people killed, 20 of them were children under the age of eight. Jiverly Wong, a naturalized US citizen from Vietnam, walked into an immigration center in Binghamton, New York state, on April 3, 2009 and began shooting. He had some run-ins with the law in California and New York, but it's unclear why he chose to attack an immigration center. He had recently taken English lessons at the center and one of the shooting victims was, apparently, his former teacher. Army Major Nidal Malik Hasan opened fire on his fellow soldiers at the Fort Hood army base in Texas, killing 13 and wounding 30 more on November 5, 2009. In 2013 he was sentenced to death by a US military court. Although he put up virtually no courtroom defense, there is an automatic appeal on any death sentence. After student Seung-Hui Cho went on a shooting spree that killed 32 people at Virginia Tech University in 2007, thousands rallied in Washington to demand gun control laws. But the National Rifle Association (NRA) is one of the most powerful special interest groups in the capital, and they have blocked all reform efforts. The 1999 assault in Columbine, Colorado, brought major attention to US gun laws, also prompting a film by leftist documentary-maker Michael Moore. Two disgruntled students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold walked into their school one day and opened fire with automatic weapons. They killed 13 people - including 12 students - and then committed suicide. cw, js/cmk (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.