Hamburg's former Gestapo headquarters has become a luxury property. Relatives of people tortured by Adolf Hitler's secret police have held protests against the memorial planned by the city and the private investors. The "center of terror," as City-State Culture and Media Minister Carsten Brosda describes it, was based in the Stadthaus, a splendid 300-year-old building right in the old city. Its restored tower overlooks adjacent buildings. A hotel has moved into the ground level. On some windows, slogans such as "Chin up, Cherie!" advertise the new luxury flats above. Behind the elegant facade, Adolf Hitler's Gestapo tortured opponents of his Nazi regime. The violence began as early as 1933 in this historic building with a view of the the canals that run through Hamburg's inner city. The victims included the barber Herbert Baade. An active communist, he was arrested because he had a leaflet against the Nazis. The Gestapo never found out that he had printed it himself or who else was involved, said Detlef Baade, Herbert's son. "My father was brought here several times," Baade said. "They strapped him to a wooden gymnastics vault and beat him till he bled and collapsed. They stabbed him through the leg with a bayonet, and he had broken bones in his face." "Chin up, Cherie!" the former Gestapo torture center cheerily greets potential tenants 'Station of suffering' Prisoners were systematically terrorized. Deportations were organized in the Stadthaus. "For many, this was the first station of suffering on their way to the concentration camps," a memorial plaque says. The building's role remained largely undiscussed after the war ended. Only the "walk of sighs," which led from the former basement cells to the Gestapo offices, continues to be a reminder of its dark history. The rest of the Stadthaus was bombed in the war and, after being rebuilt, housed the Hamburger's planning department until 2013. But prestigious property on one of Hamburg's most lucrative sites rarely stays in public hands. In 2009, the city sold the Stadthaus, and the land it stands on, to the real estate developer Quantum Immobilien. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1EVNd Commerce or commemoration? In its contract with the city, Quantum agreed to create a "place of learning" about the Nazi era in the building, which has been branded Stadthöfe. Hamburg's Culture and Media Ministry describes the planned memorial site as a significant step forward. For the first time, a spokesman said, there will be an exhibition in this location about persecution and resistance in Hamburg during the Third Reich. A specialist book store and a literary cafe will form two further parts of the memorial. Shops, restaurants, work spaces and apartments are planned for the rest of the building. Read more:Sebastian Kurz to Hitler comparison sparks uproar in Austria The commercial aspects have provoked protest. It is undignified, said Cornelia Kerth, of the VVN-Bda, an association for people persecuted by the Nazi regime and other antifasciscts. "The point is that it will not be a memorial, but merely a 70-square meter exhibition in a retail space, in a commercial book store and a cafe," she said. "The memorial site has shrunk. This is where the Nazi terror in Hamburg was organized." Detlef Baade believes that the developers sought not only to sanitize the grounds when preparing the building for its luxury tenants, but its history, too. "It needs to be restored a little to how it used to be — with the cellar, where people were locked up and half beaten to death," Baade said. "That means dealing with our past, with the Gestapo. We owe it to the victims." This criticism irritates Quantum's spokesman, Matthias Onken. "Until now, there was only the memorial plaque — nothing else," he said. "Quantum's wish is to create this place of commemoration. That's why it is simply absurd to say, in any way, shape or form, that this will now supposedly be suppressed." Nevertheless, Quantum has decided to remove an iron sign from one of the building's doorways. The design of the letters spelling out "Bienvenue — Moin Moin — Stadthof" ("welcome" in French and "hi" in the local dialect) had been criticized for being too similar to that of the notorious sign stating "Arbeit macht frei" at the entrance to the Auschwitz concentration camp. A commemorative space should have been created far sooner, said Norbert Hackbusch, a member of the Left party in Hamburg's city-state parliament. "That we have not yet commemorated the victims here was an unforgivable mistake," Hackbusch said. "From outside, there will be no visible sign that there is a memorial here. It looks as though all this will be run by a bookstore owner who needs to make a living from it at the same time. That is asking too much. And the rooms look pretty small. A dignified commemorative space looks different." (Left to right) Hackbusch, Baade and Kerth and the bronze plaque to honor victims Forum for dialogue Culture Minister Brosda said a meaningful memorial space was planned to adequately represent the building's history. The organization running the educational site at the former concentration camp Neuengamme, near Hamburg, is also involved in the process, he said. Brosda's ministry has invited the memorial's planners and their opponents to roundtable talks at the end of February. Quantum will attend them, too. Baade views this with a mixture of skepticism and optimism: "That people talk to each other is sensible. But the department must follow its words with actions. That's why it's good that we are now working on a concept together." The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon