Defending champion Yuzuru Hanyu underlined his status as the greatest figure skater of his era after clinching gold in the men's singles on Saturday. Not since Dick Button in 1952 had a skater won back-to-back Olympic golds in the discipline. "Just happy. I can't say anymore, just happy," Hanyu said through his ever-present smile. "I just did my best today. I don't know if this is the best of my skating life, but I can say from my heart that I skated my best today." His 2014 victory in Sochi made him a cult figure in Japan, with an army of fans following him wherever he goes and showering him with Winnie the Pooh soft toys. Read more:Winter Olympics: Day 8 Live Helpers have to clear the ice of the Winne the Pooh toys thrown to Hanyu His supporters were out in force in Pyeongchang and Hanyu did not disappoint. It was not a flawless performance, one combination jump in particular almost tripped him up. His free skate routine was a joy to watch however, and gave him a combined score of 317.85 to give him a cushion of almost 11 points over his Japanese compatriot Shoma Uno (306.90) and six-time European champion Javier Fernandez (305.24). Hanyu's victory completed a Japanese one-two, with Shoma Uno taking silver "I know I didn't do the perfect programme but I was satisfied with what I did and it got me an Olympic medal," Fernandez admitted. "I've been dreaming about it and it's been a big goal for me. I knew it was going to be my last Olympics so it's true that I was a little bit more nervous than on Friday." That skate on the previous day's short program was Hanyu's first in over three months. A knee injury had kept him out of training and cast doubts he would even be able to take part in the Games. "I worried a lot of people as I could not practise because of my injury. So, there was stronger support than before, he told Japanese broadcaster NHK. "I was so fortunate. I'm feeling gratitude. I was able to make a jump that I wanted to do with concentration." Read more: Winter Olympics: Ester Ledecka delivers one of the all-time Olympic upsets Yun Sungbin won gold in the men's skeleton, to the delight of the home crowd. It was the host country's second gold of the Games, and only their third overall, but Sungbin delivered a supernatural performance to blow away the field. Perhaps his Iron Man helmet played a role? German figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot were overcome by emotions after they completed a flawless free program. The two not only won gold, but set a new free-program world record in the process, winning Germany's first gold in the pairs since 1952. Teammate Marianne St.-Gelias (right) almost seems happier than Kim Boutin seconds after the Canadian learned that she had won the bronze meal in women's speedskating on the 500-meter short track. Boutin was awarded bronze after South Korean Choi Min Jeong was disqualified for interference. However, the home fans - and many others -felt that it was actually Boutin who had committed the offense. Germany's Laura Dahlmeier seals her second gold medal at the Winter Games, this time in the biathlon 10km pursuit. She is the first woman to win the sprint-pursuit double after her victory in the 7.5km sprint on Day 1. Reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson survived treacherous conditions which disrupted the crash-filled women's slopestyle snowboarding event to successfully defend her Olympic title on Monday. Mirai Nagasu became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics as the United States won bronze in the team free skate. Former bobsleigher Akwasi Frimpong becomes Ghana's first ever athlete to compete at the Olympics in skeleton. Red Gerard, just 17 years old, sealed an incredible Olympic gold in the men's slopestyle, the United States' first in Pyeongchang. Gerard crashed out on his first two runs but his third and final was an absolute beauty, handing him an unlikely victory. Andreas Wellinger, 22, could not contain his joy after winning gold in men's normal hill ski jumping. It is already his second gold medal in his career as he won gold in the team long hill ski jumping event at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. North Korean short track speed skater Choe Un Song had a red sea of support behind him as he competed in the Men's 3000m. Unfortunately for the traveling North Korean troup, Choe failed to advance to the semifinals, racing just once. Despite starting third, Laura Dahlmeier, 24, held off competitors in the Women's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint to win her first Olympic gold medal. "I have dreamed of this day for a long time. I still cannot believe it," Dahlmeier said afterwards. Hanyu was almost upstaged by 18-year-old US skater Nathan Chen. The teenager pulled off a sixth quad and the loop to set an Olympic free skate record of 215.08 points. His poor performance the day before, however, left Chan in fifth overall. The plaudits went to the Japanese in the end, marking the culmination of an incredible journey from having to flee an ice-rink in the earthquake of 2011, to the highs of gold in 2014 and the lows of his recent injury crisis. Not only did Hanyu secure the first consecutive men's singles figure skating golds in six decades, his was the 1,000th gold medal awarded in Winter Olympics history. Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2sQmA 