As the Berlin International Film Festival reaches its halfway point, there is already much anticipation about the winners of the Golden Bear, the festival's top award, and the Silver Bears in different categories. Altogether, 19 of the 24 films shown in the Competition section are in the running. Some titles, such as Steven Soderbergh's thriller "Unsane" and José Padilha's "7 Days in Entebbe," depicting a true-story hijacking that stars Daniel Brühl and Rosamund Pike, are shown out of competition. Cult US indie filmmakers Wes Anderson and Gus Van Sant are in the race with two critically acclaimed works, "Isle of Dogs" and "Don't Worry, He Won't Get Far On Foot." But with German director Tom Tykwer heading the jury, home-grown productions might get bonus points. Read more: Berlinale opening: Wes Anderson's 'Isle of Dogs' is a Japanophile's feast There are four German films competing at the Berlinale this year. Christian Petzold's "Transit" and Emily Atef's "3 Days in Quiberon" have already premiered, while Philip Gröning's "My Brother's Name Is Robert and He Is an Idiot," chronicling an unusual incestuous relationship between two siblings, and "In the Aisles," described as a magical realist romantic drama  by Thomas Stuber, will be screened later this week. "My Brother's Name Is Robert and He Is an Idiot" is one of the German films running for top honors this year Read more: Berlinale film 'Transit' brings World War II refugees into the present Actor Franz Rogowski, one of the European "Shooting Stars" at the 2018 Berlinale, stars in both Stuber's and Petzold's films. Dubbed "Joaquin Phoenix's Teutonic cousin" by the Hollywood Reporter magazine, the promising German actor is bound to be on the shortlist for a Silver Bear. With many films still to be premiered, it's too early to start predicting anything, but the gallery above points out a few of the critics' favorites to date. The winners will announced on Saturday, February 24. Read more: Berlinale 2018: Meet the jury