Britain's ex-housing minister Domic Raab was named new Brexit Secretary on Monday, as Prime Minister Theresa May sought to reassert control over her cabinet. The move comes after his predecessor David Davis resigned, criticizing May's policy in Brexit talks with the EU. "The Queen has been pleased to approve the appointment of Dominic Raab MP as Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union," May's Downing Street office said in a statement and on Twitter. Who is Raab and why is he taking over? - May appointed Raab, a 44-year-old Euroskeptic, after previous Brexit Secretary David Davis resigned late on Sunday. - Davis departed two days after May's allies said she managed to unite her Cabinet behind a joint Brexit strategy. - The new Brexit secretary, Raab, was once mentored by Davis and later worked in the UN's Hague war crimes tribunal. - Raab campaigned for "Leave" ahead of the 2016 vote on the UK leaving the EU. - He has urged an aggressive approach in the EU talks. - The Davis - Raab reshuffle comes just nine months before the UK is set to complete the separation process. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/313S0 Why did Davis resign? Davis, who has been appointed Brexit Secretary two years ago, criticized May in the media for being too compliant and giving "too much too easily" with her latest Brexit strategy. The policies would leave Britain in "at best a weak negotiating position, and possibly an inescapable one," he said in his resignation letter. May became prime minister after David Cameron resigned from the post in the wake of the Brexit referendum vote in June 2016. Despite her position, she has struggled to define what kind of Brexit her government wants. Hardliners within her Conservative party want her to push for a clean break. Others want Britain to stay close to the bloc. The EU itself has rejected many of May's Brexit demands. The leader of the British Labour Party has no formal role in the Brexit talks, but he is influential as the head of the main opposition party. Labour has tried to pressure the Conservative government, which has a thin majority in Parliament, to seek a "softer" Brexit. But Corbyn's own advocacy has been lukewarm. The long-time leftist voted for the UK to leave the European Community (EC) in 1975. Boris Johnson's turbulent two years as UK Foreign Secretary came to an abrupt end with his resignation on July 9. The conservative had been a key face for the Leave campaign during the 2016 referendum campaign. Johnson disapproves of the "soft Brexit" sought by PM May, arguing that a complete break from the EU might be preferable. He became the second Cabinet member within 24 hours to quit... David Davis headed Britain's Department for Exiting the EU and was the country's chief negotiator in the talks before he quit on July 8, less than 24 hours before Downing Street announced Boris Johnson's departure. Davis had long opposed Britain's EU membership and was picked for the role for this reason. Davis was involved in several negotiating rounds with his EU counterpart, Michel Barnier. Nigel Farage was the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) until July 2016. Under his stewardship, the party helped pressure former Prime Minister David Cameron into calling the EU referendum. He was also a prominent activist in the Leave campaign in the lead-up to the vote. Farage still has some influence over Brexit talks due to his popularity with pro-Leave voters. EU Commission President Juncker (left) and EU Council President Tusk (right) share two of the bloc's highest posts. Juncker heads the EU's executive. Tusk represents the governments of the 27 EU countries — the "EU 27." Both help formulate the EU's position in Brexit negotiations. What Tusk says is particularly noteworthy: His EU 27 masters — not the EU commission — must agree to any Brexit deal. The former French foreign minister and European commissioner has become a household name across the EU since his appointment as the bloc's chief Brexit negotiator in October 2016. Despite his prominence, Barnier has limited room to maneuver. He is tasked with following the EU 27's strict guidelines and must regularly report back to them during the negotiations. The Irish PM has been one of the most important EU 27 leaders in Brexit talks. Britain has said it will leave the EU's customs union and single market. That could force the Republic of Ireland, an EU member, to put up customs checks along the border with Northern Ireland, a British province. But Varadkar's government has repeatedly said the return of a "hard" border is unacceptable. The leaders of the EU 27 governments have primarily set the EU's negotiating position. They have agreed to the negotiating guidelines for chief negotiator Barnier and have helped craft the common EU position for Tusk and Juncker to stick to. The individual EU 27 governments can also influence the shape of any Brexit outcome because they must unanimously agree to a final deal. Author: Alexander Pearson Resignation raises eyebrows in Berlin Commenting on Davis' departure, Germany's Deputy Foreign Minister in the Foreign Ministry, Michael Roth, told DW the move was "anything but encouraging." The latest blow to Theresa May shows that the UK government is still divided over its strategy in the talks with the EU, he added. "However, the negotiations have been going for a long time, and they need to be concluded," Roth said. Read more: Where Germany stands on Brexit On Monday, the European Commission said it would continue talks with the UK. "The schedule, as everybody knows, is tight, we are available 24/7," a spokesman for the European Commission told reporters, adding the Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker and May had spoken on the phone on Sunday. May's troubled reign May has been struggling to present a united front on London's side in the tough Brexit talks, and Davis' departure could further undermine her authority in the Conservative party. Citing disagreement with the prime minister over EU divorce talks, Brexit Secretary David Davis quit his post in July 2018. Davis, who served as UK's top Brexit negotiator, said Theresa May's policy could leave the UK in an "inescapable" negotiating position. In April 2018, Home Secretary Amber Rudd resigned when reports surfaced of UK authorities mistreating long-term British residents from the Caribbean. The officials wrongly labeled the so-called "Windrush Generation" as illegal immigrants. London originally invited the migrants to help rebuild UK economy after World War II, with the ship "Windrush" transporting the first group to the UK shores. Michael Fallon stepped down as British defense secretary in November 2017 after apologizing for touching a journalist's knee in 2002 and other allegations of inappropriate conduct that have not been made public. In his letter of resignation, Fallon said he had "fallen short of the high standards" expected of the military. Fallon was replaced by Gavin Williamson, one of May's trusted allies. International Development Secretary Priti Patel also reigned in November, after being found to have had 12 undisclosed meetings with officials in Israel, including with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in breach of diplomatic protocol. Patel discussed the possibility of British aid being used to support medical assistance for Syrian refugees arriving in the Golan Heights. First Secretary of State Damian Green was forced to resign after an inquiry found he made misleading statements about pornographic material found on a computer in his parliamentary office in 2008. A key ally of Prime Minister Theresa May, he was named secretary of state after May lost a parliamentary majority in early elections. Green was among those who urged Britons to vote to say in the EU. Author: Darko Janjevic dj/ng (Reuters, AP, AFP)