The main defendant in Germany's neo-Nazi terror trial distanced herself from right-wing extremism in her closing remarks and asked the presiding judge to refrain from convicting her as a murder accomplice. "Please don't convict me in the place of others for something that I never wanted to do nor ever did," Beate Zschäpe said in court in Munich. Neo-Nazi ideas, she added, "no longer have any meaning" for her. The 43-year-old from the eastern German city of Jena is believed to be the only surviving member of the far-right terror cell Nationalist Socialist Underground (NSU). She and two other men, the now-deceased Uwe Böhnhardt and Uwe Mundlos, are accused of murdering 10 people, most of them minorities, and carrying out bombings and robberies from 2000 to 2007. Read more: Neo-Nazi NSU terrorist murder trial: 5 years on, many questions still unanswered 'I'm a compassionate person' Turning to the victims' relatives, Zschäpe said she could sense their "distress and despair," but did not know why Böhnhardt and Mundlos had targeted their loved ones. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30cUV "I'm a compassionate person," she said. "I'm sorry for the misery that I've caused." The trial against Zschäpe began in 2013 after she turned herself in to police in 2011. Authorities had been unaware of the connection between the crimes until they found a video confession she had filmed shortly after Böhnhardt and Mundlos committed suicide in November of that year. Zschäpe said she only learned "piece by piece" about Böhnhardt and Mundlos' "horrific" crimes thereafter. Read more: Neo-Nazism: What is Germany's NSU terror trial? For years, neo-Nazis of the right-wing organization National Socialist Underground (NSU) killed people across Germany. The suspects: Uwe Mundlos, Uwe Böhnhardt (center) and Beate Zschäpe. Their victims: eight people of Turkish origin, one Greek man and a German policewoman. Their motive: obvious xenophobia. Until 2011, the German public was not aware of the scope of their crimes. The murder spree was uncovered on November 4, 2011, when Mundlos and Böhnhardt robbed a bank in the east German town of Eisenach. For the first time, they failed. Police officers surrounded the caravan in which the two men were holed up. A later investigation concluded that Mundlos first shot and killed Böhnhardt, then set the caravan on fire and killed himself. Shortly after the death of Böhnhardt and Mundlos there was an explosion at Frühlingsstraße 26 in Zwickau, in the state of Saxony. Beate Zschäpe lived at that address together with the two bank robbers. Zschäpe allegedly set the house on fire to destroy evidence. Four days later, she turned herself in to the police. The terror suspect has been custody since that day. In the ruins of the Zwickau flat, police officers found a self-made video in which the terror cell claimed responsibility under the name of the NSU, the National-Socialist Underground. The 15-minute video shows crime scenes and pictures of the victims killed by the right-wing terrorist group between 2000 and 2007. Famous cartoon character The Pink Panther hosts the amateur video, which is full of slogans of hatred against people with an immigrant background and which mocks the murder victims. Before her arrest, Zschäpe allegedly sent out copies of the video in which the NSU claimed responsibility for the crimes. Until 2011, the term "döner murders" was frequently used when reporting about the killings. Nothing was known about the connection between the individual cases, nor about the motive. There were rumors the victims were linked to the drug scene. But the NSU's video left no doubt. The term "döner murders" was chosen as Germany's "Unwort des Jahres" (doublespeak of the year) in 2011. "The findings made by our security authorities so far show no indication of a terrorist background, but of a criminal milieu," said German Interior Minister Otto Schily on June 10, 2004. A day earlier, a pipe bomb explosion in Cologne left 22 people injured and many shops damaged. In 2011, it became clear: the NSU’s right-wing terrorists were also behind the Cologne bombing. On February 23, 2012, Germany commemorated the victims. At the ceremony at a Berlin concert hall, the focus was on the relatives of the victims. Semiya Simsek (right), the daughter of the murdered flower stand owner Enver Simsek, gave an emotional speech. German Chancellor Angela Merkel made an official apology to the victims and promised them that all questions would be answered. "Dortmund is a colorful, tolerant and welcoming town – and opposes right-wing extremism!" This statement was made by mayor Ullrich Sierau at the unveiling of the memorial stone for NSU victim Mehmet Kubasik in September 2012. The memorial was set up just meters away from the kiosk in which Kubasik was killed on April 4, 2006. On November 4, 2012, exactly a year after the terror cell was uncovered, people in many German cities staged solidarity demonstrations against right-wing extremism. The protesters called for thorough investigations into the racially motivated murders - which in their view was not happening fast enough. Believed to be the last survivor of the NSU trio, Zschäpe went on trial in May 2013. Since then, more than 800 witnesses have been heard. Zschäpe did not speak for the first two and a half years of the trial. Her lawyers, one of whom, Hermann Borchert, is seen here next to his client, called in their final plea for a maximum sentence of 10 years, saying she was not guilty of complicity in murder. Federal prosecutors have called for Zschäpe to be given a life sentence for her role in the killings. She has been charged with joint complicity in 10 counts of murder, arson, robbery, extortion, the formation of a terrorist organization and membership in a terrorist organization. Four others at the trial are also accused of helping the NSU. A final ruling is expected sometime after June 2018. Author: Anna Peters / nh 'Lead a life without fear' Federal prosecutors have demanded a life sentence for Zschäpe. Her lawyers have denied she was an NSU member and requested she be sentenced only on robbery and arson charges. A final verdict against Zschäpe and four other suspects accused of helping the NSU is set for July 11. "I just want one more thing," she said. "To find closure and at some point lead a life without fear." amp/msh (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.