Children in danger, a dramatic rescue operation with divers risking life and limb to help 12 young boys and their soccer coach get out of a flooded cave in Thailand – that is the stuff Hollywood movies are made of. And two production companies have reportedly already shown an interest in the story. Read more: Thai boys lost weight but generally well after cave ordeal 'Touching event' "We're here (in Thailand) really looking at this as a movie that could inspire millions of people across the globe," says Michael Scott CEO of Pure Flix, which specializes in Christian and family films. Pure Flix is said to be speaking to actors, writers and potential investors about making a film about the heroic acts. Scott, who lives in Thailand for part of the year, followed the events at the rescue site in Chiang Rai for days, and also witnessed the boys being brought out from the cave. After deliberating over how best to rescue the boys and their coach - considering even whether to teach them how to dive, or wait for the monsoon waters to recede months later - rescue workers finally settled on pumping out as much water as possible, sedating those trapped and strapping them to a diver who shepherded them to safety. Rescue divers initially found the 12 young soccer players and their coach alive on July 3 after they went missing in a Thai cave 10 days earlier. Fighting against time, rain and low oxygen levels, rescuers managed to free the first four boys successfully on July 8. The rescuers faced a complicated and dangerous diving mission to free the rest of the team and their coach. Families of the teenage soccer players expressed their joy over the discovery of the boys nine days after they went missing. Outside the cave, the mother of one of the boys said she was "glad" for a glimpse of her son. "He's thinner," she said, as she ran her finger over the image of her son on a television screen. Thai rescuers were assisted by an international team comprising experts from China, Australia, the USA and Britain. A video from the Thai Navy SEAL Facebook page showed the group several kilometers inside the 10-kilometer (6-mile) cave network on a small wedge of dry ground. The boys moved 400 meters further in as the ledge had become covered by water. The boys, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach entered the cave to celebrate one of the player's birthday. They became trapped in the cave, a local tourist spot where similar incidents have taken place in the past, when sudden rainfall flooded its entry on June 23. It was later reported that some of the boys could not swim, further complicating the rescue. The rescue mission proved difficult for divers whose efforts were continually hampered by rising water that filled sections of the cave, often forcing them to stop. Getting trained divers into the cave was easier than getting untrained kids out. The entire nation was glued to the media coverage of the rescue mission, and Thai authorities insisted they will not compromise on the safety of the trapped group. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha (above, at right) thanked international experts who helped find the boys. The first four boys were rescued by a team of 13 foreign diving experts and Thai Navy SEALS, who helped them navigate the flooded cave tunnels. The head of the rescue operation said they were the healthiest in the group. The rest of the boys and their coach would be rescued from the cave over the next two days. Doctors who treated the boys after their rescue reported that while they had lost weight, the otherwise appeared to be in good health. The dozens of divers and hundreds of other rescue workers have been celebrated around the world as heroes, especially 38-year-old former Thai Navy SEAL Saman Kunan, who died after bringing the group supplies of air on July 5. "To see all that heroic bravery in the cave, and to get all the divers out, it's just such a touching event and so personal to me," says Scott, whose wife is of Thai descent. Ivanhoe Pictures is the other company said to be interested in turning the risky rescue into a movie with director Jon M. Chu. No whitewash promised California-born Chu, who has Chinese heritage, also tweeted that he will not "let Hollywood #whitewashout the Thai Cave rescue story.". Read more: Ex-Thailand navy SEAL dies while working to save boys from cave The Thai cave rescue saga is reminiscent of the 2010 Chilean mining disaster and rescue of 33 miners trapped for 69 days. Starring Antonio Banderas, the survival drama entitled "The 33" hit the movie theaters in 2015. People may have been glued to their screens when the actual drama unfolded, but the film was not a box office success. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.