Republican party leaders denounced President Donald Trump's press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki on Monday, saying Trump's message conveyed "weakness," was a "missed opportunity" and made the US "look like a pushover." Democrats questioned why the US president would "put the interests of Russia above those of the US." Trump said in the press conference that he had "no reason to believe" that Russia had interfered with the US election, emphasizing that Putin "was extremely strong and powerful in his denial." Top Republican Senator John McCain called Trump's summit in Helsinki a "tragic mistake," lamenting that the US president was "unable" to stand up to Putin. "Coming close on the heels of President Trump's bombastic and erratic conduct towards our closest friends and allies in Brussels and Britain, today's press conference marks a recent low point in the history of the American Presidency," McCain's statement read. "No prior president has ever abased himself more abjectly before a tyrant," McCain said, in a scathing review of Trump's joint appearance with Putin. Corker: US 'a pushover' The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Paul Ryan, said in a statement that Trump "must appreciate that Russia is not our ally." "There is no moral equivalence between the United States and Russia, which remains hostile to our most basic values and ideals," Ryan said. "The United States must be focused on holding Russia accountable and putting an end to its vile attacks on democracy." Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Republican Bob Corker, told reporters that the Helsinki press conference was "not a good moment" for the US. Corker reaffirmed the findings in the US Senate investigations that pointed to Russian involvement in the 2016 US election. "When he had the opportunity to defend our intelligence agencies who work for him, I was very disappointed and saddened with the equivalency that he gave between them and what Putin was saying," Corker said of Trump. Read more: What Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin should agree on in Helsinki Senator Lindsey Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee said in a series of tweets that the meeting in Helsinki was a "missed opportunity by President Trump to firmly hold Russia accountable for 2016 meddling and deliver a strong warning regarding future elections." Adding that his answers to questions of election meddling send a message of weakness and create more problems than it solves. In reference to a World Cup soccer ball that Putin gifted Trump in the middle of the presser, Graham said that if it were him, he would "check the soccer ball for listening devices and never allow it in the White House." Cristiano Ronaldo provided an early example of the spectacular at the World Cup when he dragged Portugal to a 3-3 draw with Spain. The superstar, who would sign for Juventus soon after the tournament, scored a terrific hat trick to earn his side the draw, capping it with an eye-popping free kick in second half stoppage time. With a squad stuffed with elite players, Belgium played the most attractive brand of attacking football at the World Cup. Eden Hazard (left) and Kevin De Bruyne (center) dazzled spectators with their skill. Hazard's 40 successful dribbles was the most at the World Cup and De Bruyne had the second most key passes with 23 (England's Kieran Trippier had 24). The Croatian striker does not hide the fact that he wears his heart on his sleeve. He showed up all over the field for Croatia, winning balls in midfield and banging in goals in the box. His grit is best exemplified by Croatia's 2-1 win over England, where he scored the winning goal in the second half of extra time and had to leave moments later after appearing to suffer from cramp. Iran's Milad Mohammadi tried to bring Sunday league football to the World Cup when he tried a front flip throw-in against Spain. The attempt failed miserably, and the Iranian defender had to regroup and settle for a more traditional throw-in. His side still lost. Neymar's embellished an ankle injury to the nth degree after Mexico's Miguel Layun stepped on him. The moment was rather embarrassing for a sport frequently accused of having "soft" sportsmen. But it was a gift for the internet as users re-purposed Neymar's "roll" into memes, GIFs and other media. The hosts were the lowest ranked team entering the World Cup, but ended up being the tournament's biggest surprise. They finished second in their group after scoring eight goals, which tied England for second most in the group stages. They also triumphed over 2010 champions Spain before losing to eventual runners-up Croatia on penalties in the quarterfinals. Germany are not the first defending champion to exit in the group stage — four of the last five have done so. That said, hopes were high that the Germans would buck that trend after winning the Confederations Cup the year before without many of their 2014 stars. That hope disappeared quickly after Germany lost to Mexico and South Korea — teams they had never lost to before at a major tournament. Senegal were the unfortunate losers of a competitive Group H, which included Colombia, Japan and Poland. After the three group games concluded, Senegal were tied with Japan on points, goal difference and goals scored. But Japan had picked up two fewer yellow cards than the Senegalese, which made the coastal African country the first to be sent home because of their place on the fair play table. Croatia's population of just over 4 million people were passionately supporting their side throughout the tournament, and they were not alone. Their gutsy efforts captured the hearts of many watching the World Cup, and they received many ovations when they lost to France in the final. Their second-placed finish was their best ever performance at a World Cup. The assumption going into the tournament was that Benjamin Pavard would be a bench player for France. But Didier Deschamps gave the 22-year-old defender his chance, starting him six times. Pavard rewarded his coach's trust, even scoring a goal in the last 16. Purchased by Stuttgart for €5 million in 2016, Pavard now reportedly has several top clubs, including Bayern Munich, interested in him . Author: Davis VanOpdorp Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona blasted Trump on Twitter saying that his words were "shameful" and that he never imagined a US president would blame the US for "Russian aggression." Democrats question Trump's motives House of Representatives Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi echoed Schumer's remarks and wondered what Russia had "personally, financially and politically" on Trump, to explain his refusal to stand up to Putin. US Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer lambasted Donald Trump, saying his actions have "strengthened our adversaries while weakening our defenses and those of our allies." Schumer's NATO comment was made in reference to Trump's recent meeting with its members, just days before his trip to Russia. The US president pressured European nations to increase their defense spending and sharply criticized Germany, a traditional US ally. A day before his meeting with Putin, Trump said the EU was a "foe" of the US in regards to trade relations. Read more:Opinion: Will Donald Trump betray US and EU in Putin talks? Ahead of the Helsinki summit, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told German Funke newspaper group that his country could "no longer rely on the US" and that Europe could not let itself become divided. jcg/rc (Reuters, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31V3z Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.