Foreign ministers from Britain, France, Germany, China and Russia are meeting in Vienna on Friday with their Iranian counterpart, to discuss an economic plan that could save the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), which was designed to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons and took 12 years to negotiate. EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, who chairs the meeting, hopes to persuade Iran to remain in the JCPOA with a package of incentives that includes European Investment Bank lending, a special measure to protect EU companies from US sanctions and encouraging EU governments make direct money transfers to Iran's central bank. "We are here to listen to practical solutions, rather than slogans," Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said in the Austrian capital, signaling a willingness to study the options presented. In May, President Donald Trump pulled the US out of the signature accord that his predecessor Barack Obama had signed, calling it "horrible" and "defective at its core." The White House's retreat from the deal dismayed the remaining five countries, who swiftly signaled their continued support for the accord. But Washington reintroduced sanctions on Iran and threatened the remaining signatories with punitive measures if they engaged in trade and investment with Iran. The Iranian government has strongly denied planning to build a nuclear bomb and has threatened to resume uranium enrichment for civilian purposes if the deal completely collapses. Read more: Can Europe rescue Iran as Trump's sanctions loom? Rouhani: Current deal not good enough In the wake of the US withdrawal, Iran's rial currency has fallen, prices have risen and the country has been hit by street protests and strikes. Iran's President Hassan Rouhani, who signed the nuclear deal in 2015, has been under pressure at home from ultra-conservatives, who denounced his willingness to talk to the West and blamed him for the country's ailing economy. The Iranian president spoke to European leaders this week in support of saving the deal. But Rouhani told French President Emmanuel Macron that the current economic measures offered by Europe did not meet all of Tehran's demands to salvage the nuclear deal, Iran's IRNA state news agency reported. Read more: Opinion: Khamenei's empty threats over the Iran nuclear deal Deal before November unlikely Prior to heading to Vienna, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told RTL radio that he thinks it unlikely that European powers would be able to put together a successful economic package to save the deal before November and asked Tehran to be more cooperative. "They must stop permanently threatening to break their commitments to the nuclear deal," Le Drian said. "They must stop the threats so that we can find the solutions so that Iran can have the necessary economic compensations," the foreign minister added. Le Drian noted that Russia and China were working closely with the European signatories to find a suitable financial solution to US sanctions. "We are trying to do it before sanctions are imposed at the start of August and then another set of sanctions in November. For the start August it seems a bit short, but we are trying to do it by November," Le Drian said. Read more: Opinion: Trump's Iran nuclear deal exit dangerous for the world Germany's foreign minister, Heiko Maas lowered Iranian expectations prior to the Vienna meeting, saying that the five signatories would not be able to mitigate all the problems created by sanctions, but said that abandoning the deal would cause Tehran more harm to its economy. "We will not be able completely counterbalance the effect of companies that are withdrawing from Iran because their US business is threatened by sanctions," Maas said. "We want to make it clear to Iran today that it will continue to  benefit economically from this agreement," Maas told reporters jcg/ng (AP, dpa, Reuters, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30LxG Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.