The assault comes hours after Hamas promised to avenge Israeli retaliatory strikes that killed three of its members. A Palestinian assailant stabbed one Israeli to death and wounded two others on Thursday after entering am Israeli settlement near Ramallah in the West Bank. The 17-year-old attacker was shot and killed by a fellow resident of the Adam settlement, which lies between Jerusalem and Ramallah, local Israeli media reported. Read more: Amid Israel-Hamas violence, Gazans fearful of full-scale war "A terrorist infiltrated into the community and stabbed three civilians. The terrorist was shot and killed," the Israeli military said. A 58-year-old victim was said to be seriously wounded but stable. The third victim was slightly wounded in the leg. Hamas Islamist group, which rules the Palestinian Gaza Strip, praised the attack. The attack was a "heroic and brave operation that came in response to the daily, ugly crimes conducted by the Israeli occupation against our people." Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said. Most countries consider Israeli settlements in the West Bank to be illegal. Israel disputes this. Hamas' call for revenge Earlier in the day, Hamas had promised revenge after Israeli retaliatory strikes on the coastal enclave killed three of its members. "The enemy shall pay a high price in blood for the crime which it commits daily against the rights of our people and our fighters," said the al Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas. Tensions have worsened between Israel and the Palestinians in the past few months. But the violence has largely gripped the Gaza Strip with the West Bank remaining relatively calm. At least 140 Palestinians have died in Israeli fire during weekly border protests in the Gaza Strip. Israel says that the protests are a cover for Hamas to carry out attacks, and that most of the dead were militants. Palestinians deny the allegations. The latest flare-up comes just days after Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire in a deal brokered by the United Nations and Egypt. The ceasefire followed a dramatic surge in violence after an Israeli soldier was killed along the border for the first time in years. ap/bw (Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The convoy of Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah of the West Bank-based Fatah group was targeted as he made a rare visit to Gaza on March 13. The Palestinian Authority said it held Hamas responsible, having failed to provide adequate security. Hamas claimed the attack was aimed at hurting efforts to achieve unity and reconciliation. Some 30,000 Palestinians took part in the first of the demonstrations on March 30, marking Land Day, named for the 1976 Arab protests against Israeli plans to expropriate land. Some demonstrators ran at the border fence and 16 were killed by Israeli troops with others injured, and some dying later. Speaking on April 9 in the Israeli town of Sderot, near Gaza, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said: "We have one clear and simple rule and we seek to express it constantly: If someone tries to attack you — rise up and attack him. We will not allow, here on the Gaza border, them to hurt us. We will hurt them." Palestinians ran to help a young man injured during the border protest on April 13. Stones had been thrown at border guards and the Israeli troops fired on the demonstrators. Some 45 Palestinians died and hundreds were injured between March 30 and April 27. Protest continued on April 20th, with some Palestinian protesters using kites to transport Molotov cocktails and firebombs over the fence. Israeli snipers killed at least four more Palestinians on April 20th, including a 15-year-old boy. The UN Middle East envoy dubbed the killing "outrageous." US President Donald Trump's daugher Ivanka is part of the delegation that opened the new US Embassy in Jerusalem. The transfer of the embassy triggered a fresh wave of protests in which 62 people were killed. The deaths have considerably heightened tensions in the area. As the US celebrated its embassy move from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem, Palestinian protests escalated. The events coincided with the 70th anniversary of the foundation of modern-day Israel, and Nakba Day, when Palestinians recall those who fled or were expelled as Israel was established. Palestinians carried away a protester injured on May 15th after demonstrations marking the 70th anniversary of Nakba. Hamas official Salah al-Bardaweel said on Palestinian television that all but 12 of the dead were members of Hamas. Mahmoud Abbas the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization is planning to pursue a war crimes complaint against Israel at the International Criminal Court. Following an increase in cross-border violence in mid-July, Israel pounded Hamas military targets in Gaza, while Palestinian militants fired more than 170 rockets and mortars into Israel. Two Palestinian boys, aged 15 and 16, were killed in Israeli airstrikes, according to Gaza's health ministry. Three Israelis were injured after a rocket landed on a residential home in the Israeli city of Sderot. Days later, Israel blocked all fuel and gas transfers through the Kerem Shalom crossing with the Gaza Strip for six days "in light of the continued terrorist attempts of Hamas." Israel's defense ministry said essential food and medicine deliveries would still get through. The crossing had been shuttered to commercial trade a week earlier.