Greek authorities said on Thursday they suspected arson was behind the devastating forest fires that killed at least 82 people near capital Athens. "We have serious indications and significant signs suggesting the criminal actions of arson," Civil Protection Minister Nikos Toskas told a news conference. He said police had testimonies to that effect, but did not elaborate. Toskas said satellite image analysis of the deadly fires that broke out on Monday on the east and the west sides of Athens indicated that both had been set in multiple places within a short time frame. Fifteen fires had started simultaneously in three areas around Athens, raising suspicions among authorities. US surveillance aircraft were being used to gather footage to try to determine the causes of the fires. Wildfires near populated areas in Greece are often blamed on arsonists believed to be targeting forest land for development, but arrests are rare. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/326Wn 'Fire trap' Most casualties were found at the resort town of Mati, some 30 kilometers (18 miles) east of Athens. A group of experts from the University of Athens' Faculty of Geology and Geo environment blamed the layout of the town for the high death toll. The group said the haphazard and unlicensed building, with scant provision for fire safety, had acted like a "fire trap" as they blocked access to the sea. "How is it possible to have so many lives lost and not investigate who is responsible for such town planning chaos," Infrastructure Minister Christos Spirtzis said. About 300 firemen and volunteers were still combing the area on Thursday for dozens still missing. DW's Charlotte Chelsom-Pill, who is in Mati, said people from across the region have donated food and clothes to those rendered homeless by the fires. ap/bw (Reuters, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Rescue teams are searching through charred homes and cars, going door to door looking for victims. A firefighter in the hard-hit coastal community of Mati, near Athens, saved a dog from a burning house. "Mati no longer exists," said Evangelos Bournous, the mayor of nearby Rafina. Fast moving wildfires fueled by a deadly combination of dry pine trees and wind ripped through coastal areas in Attica, catching vacationers by surprise. Hundreds of people had be evacuated by boat from beaches as deadly fire and smoke encroached. Some were not so lucky and drowned in the sea. The raging wildfires have left a thick haze of smoke near Athens. Here, police direct traffic in Kineta, outside Athens. Dozens of people have been hospitalized due to smoke inhalation. Thousands of homes have been destroyed. "People are shocked, lost. Some of them have lost everything: children, parents, homes," said Red Cross spokeswoman Georgia Trisbioti. Hundreds of cars were torched in the fires. Authorities expect the death toll to rise as rescue crews search through the charred remains of homes and cars. Author: Chase Winter