Age in the form of 75-year-old Emmerson Mnangagwa takes on relative youth in 40-year-old Nelson Chamisa as the leading candidates for the election, which got underway on Monday at 7 a.m. local time (0500 UTC). In all, there are 23 candidates — and none of them are the 94-year-old former president Robert Mugabe who came to power in 1980 and was obliged to leave it last November after a military coup. Mugabe's long-term ally in the ruling ZANU-PF party, Emmerson Mnangagwa, known for his political style as the Crocodile, took over. He promised reforms and an economic recovery. Supporters of ruling ZANU-PF candidate Emmerson Mnangagwa at an election rally Mnangagwa told reporters on Monday that he is committed to a Zimbabwe in which people have the "freedom to express their views, negative or positive." He urged the country to remain peaceful during the landmark vote. However, in a televised statement on Sunday, Mugabe said he would not be voting for the ruling ZANU-PF party he founded. He hinted he would be backing Mnangagwa's rival Chamisa. Opposition candidate Nelson Chamisa of the MDC Head of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), Chamisa is a lawyer and pastor appealing to young and unemployed voters. They are seeking a change after forty years of ZANU-PF rule. After casting his vote on Monday, Chamisa said there was a deliberate attempt to "suppress and frustrate" the vote in urban areas where the MDC has strong support. He also said that, in the absence of vote rigging in rural regions, his party would win the election. His comments suggest that in the event of a Mnangagwa victory he will likely challenge the result. He had earlier told a cheering crowd as he cast his vote: "Victory is certain, the people have spoken," reported Reuters news agency. If no candidate wins more than half of the votes, a second round run-off will be held on September 8. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/329M1 kw,jm/bw (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 