The German city of Munich began removing commemorative cobblestones for victims of the Holocaust on Thursday, as it presented the first plaque of its new remembrance memorial system. The new memorial system, created by Munich designer Kilian Stauss, remembers the 10,000 Munich men, women and children murdered by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945, the City of Munich wrote in a statement. Read more: Auschwitz: Evolution of a death camp and Holocaust memorial The memorial plaques can be made in two variants and will be placed outside the last known home or workplace of the victim. The first is a 12x12 centimeter plaque made of gold-plated stainless steel, which will have the victim's details and a grid-like portrait engraved into it, Süddeutsche Zeitung reported. If the sign cannot be attached, because the house owner does not agree or because there is no suitable place on the wall, for example, a 1.8-meter stainless steel column with a gold-plated sleeve can be put up instead. Read more: Why Munich needs a new Nazi documentation center Tilly and Franz Landauer were the first Holocaust victims to be commemorated on Thursday. Franz — brother of well-known Bayern Munich football club president Kurt Landauer — died in 1943 in Kamp Westerbork in the Netherlands. His wife Tilly died in 1944 in Auschwitz. "It is important to me that we find forms of individual remembrance of the victims of the Nazi era in Munich," Mayor Dieter Reiter said. "They are to remind us of those who were murdered and set an example. Never again," he added. A huge field of stelae slabs in the center of the German capital was designed by New York architect Peter Eisenmann. Almost 3,000 stone blocks commemorate the six million Jewish people from all over Europe who were murdered by the National Socialists. These brass plates are very small, only 10 by 10 centimeters (3.9 x 3.9 inches). You can find them everywhere on the sidewalks in Berlin. The stumbling blocks are a reminder of people who lived in the adjacent houses before they were deported by the Nazis. In total there are more than 7,000 of these stumbling blocks in Berlin. Fifteen high-ranking Nazi officials met in this villa on the Wannsee Lake on January 20, 1942 to discuss the systematic murder of European Jews which they called the "final solution to the Jewish question". Today the house is a memorial. It informs about the unimaginable dimension of the genocide that was decided here. White roses on track 17 at Grunewald station remember the more than 50,000 Berlin Jews who were sent to their deaths from here. 186 steel plates show the date, destination and number of deportees. The first train went to the Litzmannstadt ghetto (Łódź) on 18 October 1941, the last train to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp on January 5, 1945. Today, the Hackesche Höfe in Berlin Mitte are mentioned in every travel guide. They are a backyard labyrinth in which many Jewish people lived and worked - for example in the brush factory of the German entrepreneur Otto Weidt. During the Nazi era he employed many blind and deaf Jews and saved them from deportation and death. The workshop of the blind is now a museum. The heart of Berlin's fashion metropolis once beat here. A memorial sign made of high mirrors recalls the Jewish fashion designers and stylists who made clothes for the whole of Europe at Hausvogteiplatz. The National Socialists expropriated the Jewish owners and handed over the fashion stores to Aryan employees. Berlin's fashion center was irretrievably destroyed during the Second World War. Before the Holocaust, 173,000 Jews lived in Berlin, in 1945 there were only 9,000. The monument "Der verlassene Raum" (The Deserted Room) is located in the middle of the Koppenplatz residential area. It is a reminder of the Jewish citizens who were taken from their homes without warning and never returned. Architect Daniel Libeskind chose a dramatic design: viewed from above, the building looks like a broken Star of David. The Jewish Museum is one of the most visited museums in Berlin, offering an overview of the turbulent German-Jewish history. There are still eight remaining Jewish cemeteries in Berlin, the largest of them in the Weissensee district. With over 115,000 graves it is the largest Jewish cemetery in Europe. Many persecuted Jews hid in the complex premises during the Nazi era. On May 11, 1945, only three days after the end of the Second World War, the first Jewish service was held here. When the New Synagogue on Oranienburger Strasse was first consecrated in 1866 it was considered the largest and most magnificent synagogue in Germany. It burned down during the Second World War. In 1995 the reconstructed synagogue was inaugurated. Since then, the 50-meter-high golden dome once again dominates Berlin's city-scape. Author: Kerstin Schmidt Cobblestones criticized The cobblestone memorials had been criticized for being disrespectful as they are embedded in the ground, which led Munich to decide to replace the stones with a new memorial system in 2015. Bavaria's supreme court backed up the decision in a ruling in 2017. The gold-colored monuments called "stolpersteine," or "stumbling stones" in English, were placed into the pavement in front of the last-known home or workplace of a Nazi victim. Read more: Opinion: Should school trips to Auschwitz be mandatory in Germany? The person's name, birthdate and fate are engraved into the block, which sits just above the street level. Stumbling stones commemorating vicitims of the Holocaust are seen in the southeastern German city of Munich Charlotte Knobloch, president of the regional Jewish community group, said it was disrespectful to lay stones in the dirt as a memorial. "I am happy that we have found this positive solution after such long discussions," Knobloch, former President of Central Council of Jews in Germany, said. Read more: From the outside looking in While the stones had been criticized, they also had many supporters in Munich, which even saw the formation of the group "Stolpersteine for Munich Initiative." Terry Swartzberg, one of the members of the association, launched an online petition on change.org calling for the removal of the stones in Munich to be stopped. The petition has more than 100,000 signatures. Across Germany and Europe there are more than 60,000 stumbling stone memorials. The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. Fifteen members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau, not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, provide details about the people and their date of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, was the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany, in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation from the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.