In the past few years, Hong Kong's annual pro-democracy rallies have become a protest demonstration against China's increasing dominance over the city state. Pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong say that Beijing has tried to silence dissent in the city since massive anti-China protests erupted in 2014. Thousands of people in Hong Kong braved sweltering heat on Sunday and took to the streets to protest against Beijing's tightening grip on their city. "End one-party dictatorship! Reject the deterioration of Hong Kong!" chanted protesters. "It is about justice," Ms Liu, a 74-year-old protester, told the AFP news agency. "The problems in Hong Kong have always been serious but now they're getting worse," she said. Hong Kong, the former British colony that returned to Chinese rule 21 years ago, enjoys more political freedom than mainland China. However, there are concerns that these freedoms have come under threat from a repressive pro-Beijing local government. China's rise as an economic superpower has also emboldened authorities in Beijing to exert more pressure on Hong Kong. Read more: Hong Kong pro-democracy movement loses ground in by-election Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2tx6k China tightens grip Beijing's refusal to grant Hong Kong full legislative autonomy triggered massive anti-China protests in 2014 under the "Umbrella Movement." The movement, spearheaded mostly by Hong Kong youth, brought the city to a standstill. Since then, city authorities have dealt with dissidents forcefully. Pro-democracy and pro-independence politicians have been barred from standing for office in Hong Kong's partially elected system, or have been removed from their seats they had secured through a public vote. Read more: Police in Hong Kong found guilty of assaulting protester Last month, Edward Leung, 27, one of the leaders of a movement advocating Hong Kong's independence from China, was jailed for six years for rioting and assaulting police in a 2016 overnight protest that turned violent. Ahead of Sunday's rally, Hong Kong authorities rejected a number of starting points for public gatherings and deployed hundreds of police. "This year is a turning point in which (authorities) have used different ways to mobilize their power to suppress the rally," Sammy Ip from the Civil Human Rights Front, one of the rally organizers, told AFP. At a ceremony to mark the 21st anniversary of Hong Kong's return to Chinese rule, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said that the "one country, two systems" framework was working smoothly for Hong Kong. Chinese President Xi Jinping also attended the event. "Without fear, we correctly deal with our relationship with the central government. And we promote a stronger understanding of the constitution, the Basic Law, and national security in all sectors," Lam said. Read more: Hong Kong's 20 years under Chinese rule – A failed project? Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam and Chinese President Xi Jinping marked the 21st anniversary of the city's handover from British to Chinese rule Pro-democracy movement losing steam? Johannes Chan Man-mun, a prominent Hong Kong-based law professor, believes the pro-democracy movement has been on a back foot and needs "new ideas." "There are many tools at the disposal of Hong Kong's pro-democracy movement's followers to address issues related to social justice. Looking back at the past two years, so many confrontations would not have been necessary. They allow the issue to briefly attract media attention, but achieve nothing more. So there is a need to come up with new ideas," Johannes told DW, adding that violence cannot solve problems. Hong Kong's 3.8 million registered voters have no say in the election of the chief executive, who will be chosen by an election committee. Hong Kong's former deputy leader, Carrie Lam (center), is seen as Beijing's favorite for the job. Her rivals are John "Pringles" Tsang (left), and Woo Kwok-hing (right). Analysts say they are unlikely to win due to a lack of Chinese endorsement. Leung Chun-ying, the current chief executive, said he would not seek a second term in office after his tenure ends on June 30. He is a deeply polarizing and highly unpopular figure in Hong Kong, especially among the anti-Beijing pro-democracy activists. It's speculated that he is not running in the election because Beijing wants to replace him with a likeable leader. Despite mass protests against his leadership, Leung has so far refused to step down. The ruling Communist Party in Beijing has repeatedly reiterated its support for Hong Kong's embattled leader. Beijing has also stressed its right to pre-approve a small number of candidates that are allowed to appear on a ballot to elect the former British colony's next chief executive. Hong Kong has enjoyed a special status since its return to China in 1997. The city enjoys a relatively freer press and its denizens can engage in political activities. Politically, however, Beijing wants to keep the city's reins in its control. The Chinese authorities are critical of any pro-democracy protests, calling them "illegal" and a "threat to social peace." In 2014, mass protests erupted in Hong Kong following the announcement by Chinese authorities that they would tightly control the nomination of candidates for the 2017 election. Beijing allows only pre-selected candidates to run for the election of the metropolis' leader. This means that the nomination of candidates who are critical of the central government is effectively excluded. Hong Kong witnessed renewed protests after Beijing expressed objections to two lawmakers who wore anti-China banners during their oath-taking ceremony in October, last year. China's top legislative body, The National People's Congress Standing Committee, called Baggio Leung and Yau Wai-ching's actions "a grave threat to national sovereignty and security." In November last year, a Hong Kong court disqualified Baggio Leung and Yau Wai-ching after they used anti-China insults when they were being sworn into office. The decision had been preempted by Beijing after it circumvented Hong Kong's courts to hand down its own interpretation of the Basic Law. Beijing ruled that Hong Kong legislators must swear allegiance to the region as part of China. Analysts say that irrespective of the election outcome, pro-independence sentiments will continue to gain momentum in Hong Kong. Two years ago, massive pro-democracy rallies organized by the "Umbrella Movement" were able to shut down parts of the city for weeks. Beijing has been keeping an eye on Hong Kong's political scene, fearing that the new developments could harm its unity and authority. Author: Shamil Shams shs/ng (AFP, Reuters)