Outdoor music fans might have a hard time deciding where to head the first weekend of July 2018 — there are so many different festivals going on across Germany between July 6-8! Here's a selection: Punk in the sun Ruhrpott Rodeo is a punk rock festival in Hünxe/Bottrop in western Germany. German band Feine Sahne Fishfilet, whose name roughly translate to the tasty-sounding "fine cream fish filet," is one of the headliners sure to draw crowds to the former coal-mining region. Organizers are ecstatic about the weather forecast for the festival dates: sunshine, sunshine and more sunshine. On their website, they say that in 12 years of Ruhrpott Rodeo, never once has the festival drowned in rain. "Is there some higher being in the universe that has a heart for punk rock?"  "There probably is," they rejoice. Concerts on a lake island In Cologne, also in western Germany, Summerjam is one of the country's biggest reggae and dancehall festivals. Headliners for its 33rd year are Gentleman, one of Germany's best known reggage artists, and the rapper Marteria. Unlike in past years, 2018 concertgoers can now buy tickets to individual concerts along with day passes. Shows take place on an island in a small lake on Cologne's northern outskirts. Get lucky with a 'Golden Ticket'? Hip-hoppers will most likely head further east, to Splash near the small town of Gräfenhainichen in the state of Saxony-Anhalt. Headliners there: Casper, Cro and J.Cole. The popular festival is actually sold out, but organizers are raffling off what they call Golden Festival Tickets. There are many festivals in Germany. The biggest open-air music festival is Rock am Ring. Over 90,000 fans will gather for three days (June 1-3) on the Nürburgring racing track to watch a long list of music acts. Meanwhile, heavy metal fans eagerly await the first weekend in August, when the small village of Wacken hosts the world's biggest heavy-metal party - the Wacken Open Air festival. Europe's caring festival: Roskilde is organized by volunteers with all profits given to charities. The festival organizers make a point of booking young artists who are just becoming popular (pictured: First Aid Kit, 2015) as well as mega-stars like the Rolling Stones or Sir Paul McCartney. Lake Geneva provides the backdrop for the world's most famous jazz festival. It will be held this year for the 52nd time, from June 29 until July 14. On the program are Nick Cave, Jamiroquai, Massive Attack or the Queens of the Stone Age. One of this year's star guests in Montreux is actor Johnny Depp with the Hollywood Vampires (rocker Alice Cooper, Aerosmith guitarist Joe Perry). The world's biggest indoor jazz festival (July 13-15) has cult status. The 75,000 tickets were sold out months ago. For three days as many as five consecutive acts will perform on the 14 stages in Rotterdam's Ahoy concert hall. Announcements this year include Earth,Wind & Fire, Pat Metheny, Gregory Porter, CeeLo Green and others. One would like to be there. The former amphitheater, the Arena di Verona, is world-famous for its open-air opera performances against spectacular ancient backdrops. Guiseppe Verdi's opera "Aida" made this location world famous. Since August 10 1913, the composer's 100th birthday, this opera has been regularly performed here. The festival begins on June 22 and continues until September 1. These summer concerts take place in London from July until September. It is the world's biggest classical music festival. The last concert, the "Night of the Proms" which is held in the Royal Albert Hall is a cult event. Tickets are much sought after and quickly sell out. "Proms in the Park" is held simultaneously in Hyde Park, so that fans without tickets can watch the concert on large screens. From June 30 until August 26 the northern German state of Schleswig-Holstein transforms into a large classical music concert stage. Concerts take place in gardens and parks, on estates and at palaces. Traditionally, the first concert is held at Gut Stockseehof. Founded in 1986, the Schleswig-Holstein Musik Festival has developed into one of the world's biggest classical music festivals. Outdoors and free - that is the motto of the Fête de la Musique, which always takes place at the start of summer on June 21st. Free concerts are performed across 500 cities by professional and amateur musicians. From Paris, this festival idea went global. It originated in 1982 when the then French minister for culture, Jack Lang, began the initiative so that everyone could enjoy access to music. Every year at Whitsun jazz fans will flock to the small German town of Moers in the industrial Ruhr area. The festival, which has been taking place for more than 40 years, is known for its openness to new musical trends. This has made it a leading festival for improvised music. Avant-garde icons like John Zorn (pictured) have been faithful to Moers for years. It was once a farm near the town of Glastonbury. That changed in 1970 when around 1,500 people came together and paid one pound entrance fee to watch the likes of Marc Bolan and Al Steward perform. In 2019 it is to take place again on the last weekend in June. It is one of the largest open-air music festivals in the world. Author: Anne Termèche (sbc) Special guest Estonia Rudolstadt Festival has stages featuring folk and world music all across this Thuringian town. It bills itslef as Germany's biggest festival of those genres. The line-up includes top acts Graham Nash and Faber. This year's country focus is on Estonia, which according to the Rudolstadt organizers "shows extraordinary creativity in all genres, be it hard rock or classical music, jazz or folk." Estonia's contemporary music scene is "doubtless the most vibrant and resourceful in the region, so we just had to add it to the program," they add. Hard rock and heavy metal The hard rock and heavy metal festival Bang your Head!!! (BYH) in the southwestern town of Balingen opens a week later (July 12-14) with headliners Accept, Europe and Powerwolf. First held in 1996, BYH is one of the most prominent metal festivals in central Germany and draws an audience of thousands from all over the world. Faster, harder, louder: This year, the ever-popular Wacken Open Air isn't til next month (August 2-4). It calls itself the "biggest metal party of the year." Headliners include Judas Priest and In Flames. Making friends on the camping sites surrounding the Wacken festival grounds was easy. Tents and campers are packed in so close that it was almost impossible not to. You might as well sacrifice your personal space during your days at W:O:A. Harry and Holger drove up all the way from the "Odenwald" in southwestern Germany. Unlike most others, they didn't start the day with beer and fried sausages - but with a healthy breakfast of fresh bread rolls, scrambled eggs and bacon - washed down with a big pot of coffee. The roof of this camper afforded a view of the complete camping grounds. There weren't any mishaps climbing up there. Grilling, though, could be more perilous. Bad burns are commonplace if people aren't careful with the kerosine. A high alcohol level in the blood is usually part of the problem. These guys gave their friend a send-off before he tied the knot. His assigned rite of passage was to make a declaration of love to five complete strangers on the W:O:A grounds. The maid of honor (left) recorded everything on a smartphone. Rebecca, Jonas and Louisa assured us that their mudbath would afford them protection from sunburn - "equivalent to a sunscreen factor of 60 at least," said Jonas. After posing, all three hurled themselves back into the brown masses and even dragged an "innocent" bystander in. Many pairs of shoes didn't survive the mud. Soles wore out and entire shoes got stuck. Somebody decided to give them a final resting place. Empty festival grounds in the morning showed the aftermath of the previous rainy day. Before: a green meadow. After: a giant sea of mud, plowed through by tens of thousands of feet. In 2016 a drainage system was installed under the infield. Doesn't seem to have been very effective though. As evening broke and the top acts performed, the infield was transformed into a sea of waving heads and hands in the air. The big video screens were a blessing for many standing way at the back. Here, the German rock band Accept was joined by a complete symphony orchestra in a metal-classical fusion. Doro Pesch doesn't miss a season in Wacken. She came this time not with her own band but as a guest vocalist in various acts, including Saturday evening's first concert with the Swedish epic death metal band, Amon Amarth. A grim expression is just as much a part of metal as loud guitars and headbanging. Clawfinger's bass player André Skaug has both the look and the headbanging down pat. Offstage, his demeanor is friendlier. Wacken fans know they'll never stay completely dry during the festival. Hardly a W:O:A without at least one good downpour. Armed with capes, the fans party to their bands' music even if inundated. Pyrotechnics are not only part of the stage acts. In the medieval Wacken Village, fire issues forth from big iron sculptures. The "Wasteland Area," inspired by Mad Max films, is illuminated by ignited special effects. Fire bowls burn even in the backstage and VIP areas, creating the trademark W:O:A look. Author: Silke Wünsch, Annabelle Steffes-Halmer (rf)