The death toll in western Japan continued to climb on Sunday, after days of unrelenting rain caused severe flooding and triggered landslide warnings. The city of Kurashiki and the Hiroshima prefecture are among the affected areas. The heavy rainfall stemmed from the remnants of a typhoon that hit south-western Japan last week. Since Thursday, landslides and flooded rivers have trapped many people in their houses or on rooftops. Read more: Extreme weather and us What we know so far: At least 80 people have died in torrential rains that pummeled wide areas of western Japan. Six people are in critical condition, and dozens are still missing, the public broadcaster NHK reported on Sunday. "We've never experienced this kind of rain before," an official at the Japanese Meteorological Agency (JMA) told media. People fled to rooftops and balconies in the city of Kurashiki, at the mouth of the Takahashi River, about 670 kilometers (415 miles) from Tokyo. Many waited hours to be rescued. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warned of a "race against time" to rescue flood victims, with many people still unaccounted for. Japanese authorities ordered about 2 million people in rain-hit areas to evacuate their homes. Hiroshima prefecture has been severely affected by rains. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called the situation "extremely serious" and ordered his government to "make an all-out effort" to rescue victims. "It's a race against time," Abe told ministers on Sunday morning. "There are still many people who have been unaccounted for. Some people have been isolated, calling for rescue." The heavy rains triggered massive landslides in some areas: "There have been massive flooding and landslides," government spokesman Yoshihide Suga told a news conference. Japan mobilized tens of thousands of army troops, police and firefighters to undertake rescue efforts. Critical infrastructure has been hit, including railway tracks. Government response: The Japanese government set up an emergency management center at the prime minister's office and has dispatched approximately 54,000 military, police and firefighters to carry out the rescue missions and provide disaster relief. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warned at an emergency government meeting that "the situation is extremely serious" and ordered his government to "make an all-out effort" to rescue those affected. "There are still many people missing and others in need of help, we are working against time," Abe said on Sunday morning. Record-breaking rain: Japan's Meteorological Agency said that three hours of rainfall in one area of Kochi prefecture had reached 26.3 centimeters (10.4 inches), so far the highest rain accumulation since 1976, when the organization began measuring rainfall. It is the deadliest rain event in Japan since 2014, when at least 74 people died due to landslides that were triggered by torrential downpours in the Hiroshima region. jcg/jm (Reuters, dpa, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.