Twelve young soccer players and their coach remain trapped inside a flooded cave. The group went missing inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex on June 23. DW: Why is a rescue attempt so dangerous? Gary Mitchell: Any attempt to dive "non-divers" out of any length of water is really a quite serious undertaking … There are several air pockets along the way, but the total length of flooded passage is in the region of a kilometer (.6 miles) long. So it's a huge undertaking for anyone but a really experienced diver — let alone young lads and their coach who've probably never dived before.  What can Thai authorities do – or not do? They've got access to really good equipment and they've got some good technology, but not necessarily cave-diving-specific technology. These guys, the navy seals working with the Thai authorities, are mainly open-water divers, sea divers. And the terrain is vastly different [in the cave] — visibility down to one foot at best (30 centimeters), confined spaces, all sorts of underground obstacles to concern yourself with as well. Just how difficult is the rescue dive? We know from our own rescue team that got in there and found them that it's a serious dive. It's a kilometer of flooded passages, and round about an hour and a half's worth of diving that involves stopping, changing air tanks, all that sort of stuff along that route. What's the biggest risk? Can I get up to the surface? And the answer to that question underground, if it is completely flooded passages, is no. Clearly there are air pockets all the way through. We believe the boys are about 2 kilometers into the system, of which about a kilometer is flooded. They could be brought to larger dryer spaces be warmed, refed, looked after and comforted. And we know that the Thai authorities are looking at possibilities. What is the most realistic timeframe for getting them out? If it continues to rain for four months, there's a strong possibility that they might not be able to dive them out. The currents are so strong underground in places. Our guys were hampered with several days of heavy rainfall, not being able to progress deeper into the cave. Clearly we can't risk — we wouldn't risk — [their lives] just to get them out if they could be looked after, kept well, warm, and alive underground. That's almost the safest place for them to be as opposed to risking diving them out. Gary Mitchell is the assistant chairman of the British Cave Rescue Council, which is involved in the search and rescue efforts in Thailand. Rescue divers on Tuesday found twelve teenage soccer players and their coach alive after they went missing in a Thai cave more than ten days ago. But authorities said it remained unclear how long the boys would have to remain inside. Thai rescuers are assisted by an international search team comprising experts from China, Australia, the US and Britain. A video from the Thai Navy SEAL Facebook page shows the group several kilometers inside the 10-kilometer (6-mile) cave network on a small wedge of dry ground. The boys had moved 400 meters further in as the ledge had become covered by water. The boys, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach entered the cave to celebrate a birthday. They became trapped in the cave, which is a local tourist spot where similar incidents have taken place in the past, when sudden rainfall flooded its entry on June 23. Authorities have brought the group high-protein gels and supplies to last for four months and have been trying to install a phone line. The rescue mission is proving to be difficult for divers whose efforts are continually hampered by rising water that has filled sections of the cave, often forcing them to halt efforts. Getting trained divers in is easier than getting untrained kids out. "We have to be 100 percent confident that there is no risk to the boys before we evacuate," provincial governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. As the entire nation is glued to the media coverage of the rescue mission, Thai authorities insist they will not compromise on the safety of the trapped group. "We want to evacuate all 13 people as soon as possible but I don't want to specify any day and date," Thai junta leader Prayut Chan-ocha (seen in this picture) said. He also thanked international experts who helped find the boys. Families of the teenage soccer players have expressed their joy over the discovery of the boys. Outside the cave, the mother of one of the boys said she was "glad" for a glimpse of her son. "He's thinner," she said, as she ran her finger over the image of her son on a television screen. As the monsoon rains begin, water is being pumped out of the caves and a plan is being developed to bring them to safety. Suggestions have included teaching the boys how to dive, and waiting until the waters subside. Another option would be to drill a hole into the cave and airlift the boys out. Chiang Rai's deputy governor said authorities prefer the diving option.