Like many German musical artists, popular German entertainer Helen Fischer patented her name with the German Patent and Trademark Office (DPMA)  — first in 2010 and again in 2015. The entries protect her name through mid-2019, and the singer has the option to extend the trademark protection. As a rule, musicians choose trademark protection in three categories, a music manager told German tabloid Bild Zeitung: in "sound storage mediums, shows and clothing." Helene Fischer took protection a step further, entering her name in ten of the 45 so-called Nice categories. The Nice classificationis a system of classifying goods and services for EU trade mark applications. Xavier Naidoo, Rammstein, Die Toten Hosen and Udo Lindenberg — they, too, have registered their artist names with the DPMA to protect their music, fan merchandise and various additional products sold under their logo or name. In the case of Helene Fischer, that includes toilet lid covers and fishing equipment. In 2014, Fischer performed for the German soccer team, winners of the World Cup Helene Fischer leads the album charts Virtually unknown in the US, Helene Fischer is the uncontested queen of what Germans call Schlager music — basically pop music sung in German. Russian-born Fischer regularly sells out huge arenas, has sold millions of records and currently heads the official German album charts with her recent album Helene Fischer. Her trademark protection includes toiletry products, electronics, jewelry, sporting goods and furniture. The singer isn't necessarily about to offer merchandise under her name in those sectors, but she certainly doesn't want anyone else to so, either. sd/db/als (with dpa) Xavier Naidoo, founding member of the Söhne Mannheims band, enjoys a rewarding solo career, and is in fact one of the country's most successful singers, with various German music awards under his belt, including the Bambi and Echo prizes. A look at the DPMA register shows: Naidoo's trademark protection includes flip-flops, top hats, money belts and book ends. The Scorpions are one of the most successful German bands of all times. They've sold 100 million records worldwide over the decades. The 1991 ballad "Wind of Change" was a worldwide hit. And only the Scorpions decide who produces sunglasses, diving equipment, airplanes and baby buggies under their name. German punk rockers Tote Hosen have been around since 1982. Today, they are one of the commercially most successful German bands. They outperform themselves at live concerts and are famous for connecting with their audiences and getting involved in socity. Their trademark protection goes back to 1995 and includes alcohol-free energy drinks as well as precious and semi-precious stones. Rammstein, a German heavy metal band founded in 1994 in Berlin, has fans all over the world and is famous for its martial shows and use of pyrotechnics on stage. Oddly enough, laundry detergent, diapers and suspenders can't carry the name Rammstein, which the band has patented. Udo Lindenberg started his career as a drummer before moving on to singing rock titles with German lyrics in the 1970s, a novelty back then — and his breakthrough. He's written music history in the meantime, and still fills large halls. The 70-year-old registered trademark protection for smoking accessories, matches and whips The German pop duo Modern Talking (Dieter Bohlen and Thomas Anders) split up in 2003, but the name is still a protected trademark. Only Bohlen and Anders are allowed to sell Modern Talking clothing, shoes and head coverings. Author: Stefan Dege (db)