Belgian prosecutors suspect a married couple of "having attempted to carry out a bomb attack" at a conference of an Iranian dissident group, officials said on Monday. The 38-year-old man and the 33-year-old woman, both Belgian nationals of Iranian heritage, allegedly intended to target a militant group called People's Mujahedeen of Iran, also known as MEK. The controversial group, listed as a terror organization by the US from 1997 to 2012, held a summit on Saturday in the French town of Villepinte outside of Paris. Belgian police intercepted the couple ahead of the event and found about half a kilogram (one pound) of homemade explosives in their car, alongside a detonator. The explosive was detonated in a controlled blast. "We can say we arrested them just in time," Belgian federal magistrate Van der Sijpt told the AP news agency. Read more: Germany charges two for spying on Iran's MEK on behalf of Iran Iranian diplomat detained After searching the couple's Mercedes, Belgian authorities also raided five homes over the weekend. A suspected accomplice has been detained in France and two others were being questioned, Belgian authorities said. An Iranian diplomat, posted in Vienna, has also been detained in Germany. The National Council of Resistance of Iran, the umbrella anti-regime organization which is closely linked with the People's Mujahedeen, accussed Tehran of being behind the attempted bombing. "The terrorists from the Mullahs' regime in Belgium assisted by its terrorist-diplomats planned this attack," they said according to a statement quoted by the AFP news agency. Around 25,000 supporters of the People's Mujahedeen and other anti-mullah groups attended the Saturday rally in France, Belgian authorities said. Ex-New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, currently serving as a lawyer for US President Donald Trump, was among the speakers. Iran slams reports as a 'false flag ploy' The summit was held ahead of a scheduled visit of Iran's president, Hassan Rouhani, to Switzerland on Monday. Rouhani is also due to visit Austria later this week. Responding to the alleged bombing attempt, Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif called it a "false flag ploy." "How convenient: Just as we embark on a presidential visit to Europe, an alleged Iranian operation and its 'plotters' arrested," Zarif tweeted, adding that Iran was ready to cooperate in investigating the incident. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2wU8N dj/kms (AP, AFP, Reuter)