Israeli authorities are preparing a plan to build another 400 homes in the West Bank, expanding their settlements on occupied territories, hardline Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman said on Friday. The move would serve as a retaliation for the Thursday attack on the settlers in the Jewish community of Adam, also known as Geva Binyamin, which saw a Palestinian teenager climb over the wall and stab three people, killing one. The 17-year-old was killed by his victims' neighbors. "The best answer to terror is the accelerated settlement of Judea and Samaria," Lieberman wrote on Twitter, using Israeli terms for parts of West Bank inhabited mostly by Jews. Israel occupied the West Bank and East Jerusalem after the Six-Day War in 1967. It has since built more tha n 200 settlements on the Palestinian-inhabited territory, shrugging of pressure from the international community that considers them illegal. Read more: Amid Israel-Hamas violence, Gazans fearful of full-scale war Army raids attacker's village Last week, Israeli lawmakers passed a controversial law which describes building settlements as "a national value" and pledges to "encourage and promote" it. Palestinians cite settlements as one of the main obstacles for a permanent peace. On Friday, Israeli army said it was "reinforcing the defense" of Adam and other Jewish settlements. The army also raided the home of the 17-year-old Palestinian attacker in the village of Kauber, clashing with local residents. The soldiers blocked the entrance to Kauber with heaps of dirt and measured the attacker's house ahead of demolition. Israeli security forces typically demolish assailant houses in what they dub a deterrent measure. The convoy of Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah of the West Bank-based Fatah group was targeted as he made a rare visit to Gaza on March 13. The Palestinian Authority said it held Hamas responsible, having failed to provide adequate security. Hamas claimed the attack was aimed at hurting efforts to achieve unity and reconciliation. Some 30,000 Palestinians took part in the first of the demonstrations on March 30, marking Land Day, named for the 1976 Arab protests against Israeli plans to expropriate land. Some demonstrators ran at the border fence and 16 were killed by Israeli troops with others injured, and some dying later. Speaking on April 9 in the Israeli town of Sderot, near Gaza, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said: "We have one clear and simple rule and we seek to express it constantly: If someone tries to attack you — rise up and attack him. We will not allow, here on the Gaza border, them to hurt us. We will hurt them." Palestinians ran to help a young man injured during the border protest on April 13. Stones had been thrown at border guards and the Israeli troops fired on the demonstrators. Some 45 Palestinians died and hundreds were injured between March 30 and April 27. Protest continued on April 20th, with some Palestinian protesters using kites to transport Molotov cocktails and firebombs over the fence. Israeli snipers killed at least four more Palestinians on April 20th, including a 15-year-old boy. The UN Middle East envoy dubbed the killing "outrageous." US President Donald Trump's daugher Ivanka is part of the delegation that opened the new US Embassy in Jerusalem. The transfer of the embassy triggered a fresh wave of protests in which 62 people were killed. The deaths have considerably heightened tensions in the area. As the US celebrated its embassy move from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem, Palestinian protests escalated. The events coincided with the 70th anniversary of the foundation of modern-day Israel, and Nakba Day, when Palestinians recall those who fled or were expelled as Israel was established. Palestinians carried away a protester injured on May 15th after demonstrations marking the 70th anniversary of Nakba. Hamas official Salah al-Bardaweel said on Palestinian television that all but 12 of the dead were members of Hamas. Mahmoud Abbas the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization is planning to pursue a war crimes complaint against Israel at the International Criminal Court. Following an increase in cross-border violence in mid-July, Israel pounded Hamas military targets in Gaza, while Palestinian militants fired more than 170 rockets and mortars into Israel. Two Palestinian boys, aged 15 and 16, were killed in Israeli airstrikes, according to Gaza's health ministry. Three Israelis were injured after a rocket landed on a residential home in the Israeli city of Sderot. Days later, Israel blocked all fuel and gas transfers through the Kerem Shalom crossing with the Gaza Strip for six days "in light of the continued terrorist attempts of Hamas." Israel's defense ministry said essential food and medicine deliveries would still get through. The crossing had been shuttered to commercial trade a week earlier. dj/aw (AP, AFP, dpa)