An Aeromexico flight departing from the northern Mexican city of Durango crashed on Tuesday afternoon shortly after taking off. More than 80 passengers were injured, some seriously, but no deaths have been reported. Two people are in critical condition, including the plane's pilot. The aircraft, made by Brazilian manufacturer Embraer, was identified as flight 2431 and was traveling from Durango to Mexico City, Aeromexico confirmed on Twitter. Mexico's Transportation Ministry said that 101 passengers and four crew members were on the plane at the time of the accident. The governor of the state of Durango, Jose Aispuro, said on Twitter that he had deployed emergency and security personnel to the scene, and in a later tweet, confirmed that everyone on board had survived the accident. Aispuro added that all aboard had been accounted for when the plane's burned fuselage was checked after the fire had been put out. Bad weather at takeoff reported Mexican broadcaster Milenio showed images of the scene of the crash, where the tail of the aircraft with the Aeromexico logo could be seen, with smoke and fire billowing from the fuselage. Governor Aispuro told local media that the Mexico City bound plane was in the process of taking off, when a loud "bang" and immediately the aircraft was on the ground. "It was raining, there was a storm, I think they tried to halt the take-off but they did not manage to land on the tarmac. It fell where the tarmac ended and that is what caused the fire, as well as serious damage to the plane," Aispuro said to Mexican broadcaster Televisa. Alejandro Cardoza, a spokesman for the state's civil protection agency, said on local television that many passengers "managed to walk out of the plane." Mexico's Transportation Ministry said that the plane "fell upon takeoff," but did not speculate on the possible cause of the accident. Although authorities and witnesses have differed on whether the plane either fell shortly after takeoff or ran off the runway without gaining altitude, there was agreement that there was a storm and possibly hail when the plane was departing. Aeromexico flight 2431 was departing from Durango, Mexico on July 31, 2018 when it crashed. The plane, a Brazilian Embraer 190 was carrying more than 100 people. While there were injuries, everyone survived the crash. When a flock of birds knocked out both engines of a US Airways jet on January 15, 2009, Captain Sully Sullenberger managed to put the plane down in the ice-cold waters of the Hudson River off Manhattan Island in New York. Everyone was saved and his heroism was celebrated in the movie Sully: Miracle on the Hudson, starring Tom Hanks. On August 2, 2005, an Air France Airbus A340 with 297 passengers and 12 crew members crashed as it was landing at Toronto's Pearson International Aiport in Canada during a heavy rainstorm. Twelve people sustained serious injuries. Even though two slides failed, the crew managed to evacuate everyone from the airport. On December 20, 2008, a Contiental Airlines Boeing 737 was attempting to take off from Denver International Airport. Crosswinds that gusted higher than expected, caused the plane to veer off the runway and crash into a ravine. Luckily, everyone walked away. The Boeing 377 Stratocruiser flying between Honolulu and San Francisco on October 16, 1956 had to make an emergency water landing when two of its engines failed. There were 24 passengers and 7 crew. The captain successfully landed the airplane in the water and everyone survived. Author: Andy Valvur jcg/aw (dpa, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.