The first members of a youth soccer team trapped with their coach in a flooded cave in northern Thailand have been rescued and are on their way to the hospital, local officials said on Sunday. Four out of the 12 boys made it out of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, the governor of Chiang Rai province and the head of the rescue mission, told reporters in the evening. Other Thai officials initially told reporters that six boys had been rescued. Mission not over yet DW's correspondent in northern Thailand, Florian Nusch said rescuers had not expressed concerns about rising water levels in the cave: "I think it is safe to assume that up to this point, authorities are still quite positive about this whole rescue mission so far." "It is raining," he said. "But it is not the really tropical rainstorm yet." "We don't know exactly when they will start the second phase of the operation," Nusch said. New oxygen tanks have to be installed and more oxygen has to be pumped into the caves during the 10 or 20 hours before the next rescue operation begins. "This daunting mission is far from over," he told DW TV. "So we are expecting at least the next two to three days before hopefully everyone will be extracted safely." What we know so far: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/312As Complicated rescue: Local government officials said 13 foreign divers and five members of Thailand's navy SEAL unit  are taking part in the long and dangerous operation to free the 12 young soccer players and their 25-year-old coach. The rescuers and boys will have to contend with navigating tight passageways filled with muddy water and strong currents, as well as with oxygen-depleted air. A former Thai navy SEAL died making the dive on Friday. Trapped for two weeks: A massive rescue operation was launched after the boys, ages 11-16, and their coach went missing on June 23. The team and coach were exploring the cave after a practice game when heavy rainfall and flooding cut off their escape route out of the cave and prevented rescuers from finding them for nine days. What happens next: The head of rescue operations said the next phase of evacuations will resume in 10 to 20 hours. The entire rescue operation, which started on Sunday morning, is expected to take two to three days to complete, as each round trip from the rescue camp in the cave to the site where the boys and their coach are located takes 11 hours. Rescuers are racing against time to evacuate the team and their coach as heavy downpours are expected to hit the area in the next few days. Rescue divers found the 12 young soccer players and their coach alive on July 3 after they went missing in a Thai cave 10 days earlier. Fighting against time, rain and low oxygen levels, rescuers managed to successfully free the first four boys on July 8. The mission is far from over, as the rescuers face a complicated and dangerous diving mission to free the rest of the team and their coach. Thai rescuers are being assisted by an international team comprising experts from China, Australia, the US and Britain. A video from the Thai Navy SEAL Facebook page showed the group several kilometers inside the 10-kilometer (6-mile) cave network on a small wedge of dry ground. The boys had moved 400 meters further in as the ledge had become covered by water. The boys, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach entered the cave to celebrate a birthday. They became trapped in the cave, a local tourist spot where similar incidents have taken place in the past, when sudden rainfall flooded its entry on June 23. Authorities have brought the group high-protein gels and supplies to last for four months and have been trying to install a phone line. The rescue mission is proving to be difficult for divers whose efforts are continually hampered by rising water that has filled sections of the cave, often forcing them to stop. Getting trained divers in is easier than getting untrained kids out. "We have to be 100 percent confident that there is no risk to the boys before we evacuate," provincial governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. The entire nation is glued to the media coverage of the rescue mission, and Thai authorities have insisted they will not compromise on the safety of the trapped group. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha (above, at right) thanked international experts who helped find the boys. Families of the teenage soccer players expressed their joy over the discovery of the boys nine days after they went missing. Outside the cave, the mother of one of the boys said she was "glad" for a glimpse of her son. "He's thinner," she said, as she ran her finger over the image of her son on a television screen. On July 8, the first four boys were freed from the cave and were taken to the hospital. A team of 13 foreign diving experts and Thai navy SEALS accompanied the boys, helping them navigate the flooded cave tunnels. The head of the rescue operation said the first four boys that were freed were the healthiest in the group, with experts hoping the first rescues will boost those who remain. Rescuers are racing against time and heavy, monsoon rains that are expected to hit the area in the next few days. The next phase of the rescue to free the rest of the boys and their coach is set to take place on July 9, once the team's oxygen supplies have been replenished. rs/jm (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.