A long-awaited official report into missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 gave no new evidence as to why the plane vanished. "The team is unable to determine the real cause of the disappearance of MH370," Kok Soo Chon, head of the MH370 safety investigation team, said in a press conference. When asked if the fate of the plane would ever be ascertained, he said: "The answer can only be conclusive if the wreckage is found." The report did reiterate Malaysia's stance that the plane was diverted and flew seven hours after the communications were cut, saying the "possibility of intervention by a third party cannot be excluded." Kok also said it was not the final report into the plane's disappearance, as was previously suggested. Flight MH370, a Boeing 777 aircraft, disappeared on March 8, 2014 during a routine flight between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing. All 239 people — 227 passengers and 12 crew members, are presumed dead.  Four years on, very little is known about the fate of the plane or those on board in one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries. On March 8, Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 bound for Beijing takes off from Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 12:41 a.m., with 239 people on board. However, 26 minutes after departure, the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS), which transmits key information on the plane's mechanical condition, is switched off. As the Boeing 777 passes from Malaysian to Vietnamese air traffic control a few minutes later, someone in the plane's cockpit says "Good night Malaysian three seven zero." The airline believes it is co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid speaking. The aircraft is flying in good weather conditions. The plane drops off civilian air traffic control screens as its transponder, which relays information on the plane's location and altitude, is shut down at around 1:31 a.m. As military radar plot the passenger jet at 2:15 a.m., it is located at a point south of the island of Phuket in the Strait of Malacca, hundreds of miles off course. The aircraft's last communication with satellites seven hours later place it somewhere in one of two corridors: a northern corridor stretching from northern Thailand to the border of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, or a southern one stretching from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean. The last signal is received at 8:11 a.m., suggesting that the plane may have flown on for hours. Shortly after the disappearance, Malaysia and Vietnam mount a joint search and rescue mission. The search area is quickly expanded to 100 nautical miles to cover part of the Gulf of Thailand between Malaysia and Vietnam. It also emerges that two passengers had been using stolen EU passports, fueling fears of a terrorist attack. Police later find that the men were illegal Iranian immigrants. By March 12, the search area for the aircraft encompasses both sides of peninsular Malaysia, over an area of nearly 27,000 square nautical miles (more than 90,000 square kilometers), with a total of 12 countries participating in the operation. A Chinese satellite discovers three large objects floating in the South China Sea that could be debris belonging to the missing airliner. Two days later, Malaysian PM Najib Razak (seen here right) confirms the plane turned back from its planned flight path and adds the movements "are consistent with deliberate action by someone on the plane." Authorities launch a criminal investigation, refocusing on the crew and the identity and background of the passengers on board. The homes of both the captain and the co-pilot are searched. Eleven days after the incident, the number of countries involved in the search for the plane increases from 14 to 26, with investigators focusing on the two large corridors the plane may have flown. The search area now covers 2.24 million square nautical miles. French investigators join in to lend expertise from the Air France jet that crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009. Officials reveal a new timeline suggesting the plane's final voice transmission may have occurred before the communications systems were disabled. Authorities are looking into hijacking, sabotage, or pilot suicide as potential reasons for the disappearance, but background checks of people aboard have yet to point to anyone with a known political or criminal motive to crash or hijack the plane. Conflicting theories emerge seeking to explain the incident. But without any identified wreckage, it is hard to establish facts. This prolongs the painful wait for the relatives and friends of those who have gone missing. There were people from 14 different countries on board, with the majority of passengers hailing from China (153) and Malaysia (38). On March 24, Malaysian PM Najib Razak announces that new satellite data suggests Flight MH370 crashed in the southern Indian Ocean with all 239 people aboard presumed dead. The statement unleashes a storm of sorrow and anger among the relatives of the missing. Angry family members - who have complained about a lack of reliable information - demonstrate in front of the Malaysian Embassy in Beijing. But anticipation repeatedly turns into frustration as objects spotted from planes turn out to be garbage. It's a time-wasting distraction for air and sea crews searching for debris. Sometimes the object traced in the water is a snarled fishing line, a buoy or something that might once have been the lid to an ice box. On April 3, nearly a month after the flight's disappearance, authorities remain baffled as to how and why it happened. Malaysian Police Chief Khalid Abu Bakar warns that unless the black box is found, the mystery may never be solved. Premier Najib Razak (R) says the search won't stop until answers are found, as his Australian counterpart Tony Abbott calls it "the most difficult in human history." On April 5, a Chinese vessel reports hearing a "pulse signal" in the Indian Ocean. Two days later, an Australian ship detects two distinct, long-lasting sounds consistent with the pings from aircraft black boxes. The international team subsequently scours roughly 850 square kilometers (330 square miles) of the southern Indian Ocean for weeks, but fails to find any evidence of a wreckage. In October, Australia shifts the search area further south to where the UK-based satellite company Immarsat calculated the plane probably went down based on brief hourly connections the plane made to one of its satellites. The area, west of Perth, Australia, along a narrow arc in the southern Indian Ocean is identified as the most likely resting place of the jet. But for months nothing is found. In late January 2015, Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation officially declared the flight was an accident, and that all people on board were presumed dead. The announcement was in line with global aviation rules that allow families of the passengers to seek compensation. Malaysian officials said they had not ruled out foul play and that the recovery of the missing plane remained a priority. However, some families of the passengers aboard Flight MH370 refuse to accept Malaysia's conclusion that the plane's disappearance was an accident. Shortly after, Sarah Bajc, whose partner Philip Wood was on the aircraft, tells DW this is a "convenient excuse," arguing that no evidence has been found to support the authorities' claim. In its efforts to improve global flight safety following the disappearance of MH370, the International Civil Aviation Organization recently proposed a new measure that will require commercial aircraft to report their position every 15 minutes. The guideline is the first stage of a proposal called the Global Aeronautical Distress and Safety System that aims to ensure planes can be tracked quickly. Chinese families of passengers aboard the flight continue to protest the handling of the search efforts by the Malaysian authorities. They hold prayers and demonstrations on the occasion of the Chinese New Year. The search teams looking for the missing airliner have so far met many challenges. Some of them are associated with the search area. The remoteness and the size of the area mean that every aspect of the operation must be planned and undertaken meticulously. The search for MH370 is already the most expensive of its kind ever undertaken. Author: Gabriel Domínguez Frustrated families The report left family members of the missing victims, who were briefed on the investigation before it was revealed to the public, angry and disappointed. Grieving relatives had hoped the official investigation team's report could provide them with some closure. However, officials gave them little beyond a lengthy description of the plane's disappearance and search efforts. "It is so disappointing," Intan Maizura Othman, whose husband was a steward on the flight, told French news agency AFP. "I am frustrated. There is nothing new to report. Those who gave the briefing from the ministry of transport were not able to give answers as they were not [the ones] who wrote the report." She said that the meeting between family members and officials turned into a "shouting match." Some angry relatives walked out of the briefing. However, the report did highlight protocols and guidelines that were not followed as well as other mistakes. "We hope that these mistakes will not be repeated and that measures are put in place to prevent them in the future," Grace Nathan, a lawyer whose mother, Anne Daisy, was on the plane, told Reuters news agency. "The one point they stressed was that this report was not to assign blame, it was only a safety investigation." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2yX2g Search abandoned The report comes two months after Malaysia called off a privately funded underwater search for the plane. The Malaysian government had agreed to a 90-day "no find, no fee" contract worth $70 million (€60 million) with US-based firm Ocean Infinity in January. The deal came a year after Australia, China and Malaysia ended an unsuccessful $157 million search of a 120,000-square-kilometer (46,300-square-mile) area. Investigators pushed for the search to be extended to a 25,000-square-kilometer area further north, but Australian and Malaysian governments said the analysis carried out by experts wasn't precise enough to justify the cost. Investigators had little to go on except for traces of data that the plane left on satellite and radar. A few pieces of debris suspected to be from the aircraft washed up on Mauritius, Reunion and a small island off the coast of Tanzania. Some theories as to the fate of flight MH370 include a remote hijacking, a terrorist hijacking, loss of fuel or an attack by an unknown military organization. dv (AP, AFP, Reuters)