The hoody: It is relaxed and sporty, not particularly eye-catching. But the artists behind a new special hooded sweatshirt are putting the comfortable clothing item in a different light. Whether yellow, green, black gray or blue, all their sweatshirts have one thing in common: They all have a kippa on the hood. The so-called "Solidarity Hoodie" has taken the traditional skullcap worn by Jewish men and combined it with one of the most ubiquitous pieces of clothing to create a political fashion statement. The hoody's designers, Berlin gallery owner Johann König and the Frankfurt art collective IGNAZ, have "recycled a religious symbol," said Christoph Pantke, spokesperson from the Berlin König Gallerie, which owns the König Souvenir fashion label that is releasing the product. Pantke told DW that the Solidartiy hoodies' main intention was to react to the"Berlin wears the kippa" rally, which in April saw thousands don a kippa and take to the streets of the German capital to demonstrate solidarity with the victim of a recent anti-Semitic attack in the city's Prenzlauer Berg neighborhood that was caught on video and, more broadly, condemn acts of anti-Semitism against Jews living in Germany. With these hoodies, the designers are making a statement for tolerance and solidarity, the gallery spokesman said, and clearly speaking out against intolerance, hate and anti-Semitism. The Jewish Museum Berlin served as a backdrop for some the press photos for the Solidarity Hoodies Support from the Jewish Museum Berlin Publicity photos show individuals wearing the solid-colored hoodies, their faces hidden by the hoods, posing causally against various urban backdrops, including in front of Berlin's Jewish Museum. The museum wasn't involved with the fashion initiative, but when the König Gallerie, located just a few blocks away, asked if they could use the museum as a photo backdrop, the museum consented. They felt "it was important to support this action in this way," Georg H. Lersch, the Jewish Museum's head of temporary exhibitions, told DW. Like the creators of the Solidarity Hoodies, the museum also responded to the Prenzlauer Berg attack and the subsequent demonstration of solidarity with its own initiative, an entryway display entitled "The Kippa Catalyst." With this initiative, the museum hopes to inspire dialogue, reflection and debate — which is also what Lersch believes the Solidarity Hoodies project could achieve. The 'Kippa as Catalyst' exhibition in the Jewish Museum contains objects from the solidarity demonstration in Berlin It "would be a little too simplistic if we were to get anti-Semitism under control by wearing trendy hoodies," Lersch said with a lighthearted laugh. "If the hoodies have an effect, then it's to create awareness about the problems that surround wearing a kippa in public, thereby spurring public debate," he added. The hoody's artists want to do precisely that: make a statement. They don't have a commercial goal. Instead, the project focuses on building awareness of the broader topic and creating more tolerance and solidarity. "No direct references are made to current political and social situations, for instance, to debates over Israel [and its policies in Gaza and the West Bank]," gallery spokesperson Pantke said. A 'provocative limit' Although one of the three members of IGNAZ is himself Jewish, Pankte emphasized that religious background had no influence on the creation of the Solidarity Hoodies; the designers were instead motivated by artistic and social impulses. The Jewish Museum's Lersch thinks it's good that the fashion initiative didn't come from the Jewish community, as was the case with "Berlin wears a kippa," but rather from artists that have "a certain political background and impact." König Souvenir, where the Solidarity Hoodies will be sold, is known for initiatives dealing with social, political and social topics while IGNAZ tries to reach youth through its artistic projects. Sewing a kippa onto a sweatshirt can be seen as provocative However, the idea of sewing a kippa onto a hoody isn't problem-free. Lersch describes it as "playing with a provocative limit." "Wearing the kippa is actually a religious moment," the curator explained, and from a religious perspective, "sewing it onto a hoody naturally plays with this idea." Turning the skullcap into a fashion statement decouples it from its significance as an object that expresses religious belief by covering one's head out of awe for God. "This is not something that I definitely support 100 percent," Lersch said, stating that it is "in a certain way a fashion game, a simulation." At the same time, he considers pulling a kippa-capped sweatshirt over one's head to be a constructed moment in which the hoody wearer tries to step into the role of someone who wears a kippa. Though he finds this idea interesting, Lersch nonetheless sees it as a "critical limit" that is part and parcel of the hoodies. Official presentation at a fashionable time The Solidarity Hoodies will officially be presented on July 6 in Berlin — a timely release for a fashion product since Berlin Fashion Week will be in full swing, with guests from the highest ranks of fashion world present in the German capital. They will be available for purchase for €89 ($104) through König Souvenir's online store, but it is going to take a lot more than putting on a sweatshirt to solve Germany's struggle against anti-Semitism. The next step in the fight against religious intolerance is a complex question, Lersch says. But one thing for the curator is clear: "Wearing a kippa in public must simply be possible. Without question." And he doesn't mean a kippa on a hoodie. European Jews started wearing the yarmulke, or kippa, in the 17th and 18th centuries, turning the skull cap into a religious symbol. Pious Jews are expected to cover their heads, but the fabric isn't that important, and a hat or scarf is acceptable, too. Jewish Halacha law requires men and boys to cover their head when they pray, visit a synagogue or a Jewish cemetery or study the religion. The miter is the ceremonial headdress worn by bishops, mainly in the Roman-Catholic Church. It goes back to the 11th century, with the tall, peaked hat deeply cleft on the sides and adorned with two ribbons at the back symbolizing the Old and the New Testaments. Members of the Sikh faith, a monotheistic religion founded in India's northern Punjab region in the 15th century, wear a dastar. A dastar is usually worn by men, with orange being a popular color. Underneath the cloth headwear, which is re-knotted every morning, Sikh men let their hair grow freely. In Farsi, the word chador means "tent," and that is what this garment worn by observant Muslim women in some parts of the Middle East resembles. Usually black, it covers a woman from the head down, hiding the shape of the body, revealing only the face. The chador is worn over a woman's regular clothing. Nuns almost always wear a distinctive veil to complete their religious garment, the habit. Novices' veils are white, while professed nuns usually wear a black veil, or one in their habit's color. Depending on the religious order, veils come in different sizes and shapes. Some are elaborate and cover the woman's entire head; others are simply pinned to the sister's hair. Is a woman's headscarf a religious headdress, or a symbol of oppression? In the West in particular, that continues to be a matter of heated debate. It is certainly the most well-known female head covering. Turkish women (as in this photo) tie headscarves differently from women in Arabic countries. The ultra-Orthodox Hasidic Jewish community in New York has strict rules for married women, who are required to shave their hair and wear a wig, the "sheitel." In her 2012 bestseller memoir "Unorthodox," US author Deborah Feldman describes growing up in the ultra-religious group. A bit of cloth, strips of cardboard and a tassle — voila, the birett, a head covering worn by Roman Catholic priests since the 13th century. In the Netherlands, Germany, Britain and France, the hat has four corners. In many other countries, it has three. If you remember the character Don Camillo (played by French actor Fernandel in a series of films in the 1950s and '60s), you know the hat! The cotton scarf that can be up to 15 meters long is worn by Tuareg Berber Muslim men throughout western Africa. The tagelmust covers the head and is pulled over the mouth and nose against wind-born sand in the desert. The turban-style headdress is worn by adult men only. When indigo blue, the tagelmust's dye can rub off on the skin, hence the Tuareg being called the "blue men of the desert." The Jewish shtreimel hat is made of velvet and has a wide fur trim, usually sable. Married men wear the hat on Jewish holidays and for religious festivities. The eye-catching headgear originated in Hasidic communities in southeastern Europe, a tradition that became nearly extinct in Europe after the Holocaust. The Amish are a conservative Christian group in North America that originated in the tradition of the Anabaptist movement in Switzerland and southern Germany. The first Amish fled to the US in the early 18th century to escape religious persecution. They live simple lives, and shun modern technology and conveniences. The women wear plain bonnets; the men wear straw or felt hats. Author: Klaus Krämer (db)