Chinese e-commerce company JD.com, an online retail giant with more than 300 million active users, intends on opening an office in Germany in 2018 with a view to establishing itself in Europe, according to its chief executive. In an interview with German business daily Handelsblatt, Richard Liu, who heads the Fortune 500 company, made it clear that JD.com has established a clear European plan, based initially around the German market. "I traveled to Berlin to achieve two goals," he told the newspaper during a business trip to the German capital. "I want to expand the business. I'm no longer just interested in selling products from Germany to China, I also want to sell products in Europe." Read more: Google invests in Alibaba rival JD.com Mr Liu said that JD.com's plan was to launch a concrete strategy for "tapping" the e-commerce market in Europe before the end of the year. "The final decision is pending," he said. "It's just about clarifying the details. But our goal is clear." Ding dong, it's Jingdong Also known as Jingdong, the Beijing-based company is the main competitor to Alibaba in China's huge online commerce market. Founded 20 years ago, it took in revenues of just under $56 billion in 2017 although it has struggled to make a profit in the face of high operating costs. Partly owned by Chinese multinational conglomerate Tencent Holdings, JD.com has grown rapidly in recent years and has been prioritizing "high-tech" delivery, namely through the use of drones, Articial Intelligence (AI) and robots. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31ikE Its advance towards the European market, signaled clearly by Liu, is not entirely surprising. In April this year, JD.com took a 33 percent stake in the Chinese unit of German insurance giant Allianz. Although that was a deal geared towards the Chinese financial services market, it was an indicator of the growing network of European business relationships the Chinese company has been establishing. Liu told Handelsblatt he was planning "globally," with an aim to sell "even local products" in Europe. That suggests a plan to target the biggest players in the highly competitive European e-commerce market where Amazon, despite its dominance in the USA and elsewhere, has to battle hard for market share behind German companies Zalando and the Otto Group, as well as a wide array of strong local competitors. Read more: Germany and China — trade partners and competitors JD.com has been investing heavily in logistics services as it looks to move beyond its Chinese base, including the development of a logistics center in France: Liu said the company wants to become "strategic partners" with delivery companies such as DHL or UPS, with the aim of using their own artificial intelligence delivery services within Europe. Sino-German angst The JD.com plans to move into the German market come at a time of heightened economic tensions between the Chinese and the EU's most powerful economy. While the US-China dimension has commanded most of the headlines in this ongoing spell of trade tensions, plenty of discontent has been brewing on the subject between Germany and China. As well as that, Germany has become wary of the flow of Chinese money into the country following some sensitive takeovers, with investment attempts closely scrutinized and audited, leading to a fall in Chinese investment in Europe in 2017. Liu played down these concerns and said that the European market should be open to Chinese companies such as his. "Restrictions on investments are the wrong way," he said. "Europe should be open. Every country should be open. China is the most important market for German cars. This benefits both sides." Although no formal move has yet been made by JD.com in terms of its prospective move into Europe, German business observers will now be watching out for the moment when the Chinese businessman's words are made flesh to see just how a big deal it really is. Food products were a popular purchase. By 9 am Chinese consumers had snapped up some 1.2 million bottles of herbal tea, 350,000 liters of milk and 75,000 bottles of cooking oil on direct sales website JD.com. It was a record breaking day at the office for Chinese internet giant Alibaba. By midday the website had smashed its whole-day sales record of $9.3 billion (8.6 billion euros). Alibaba became the first major company in 2009 to monetize the holiday by launching a special online sale and effectively transforming the day into the world's biggest 24-hour online shopping event. This is the season to buy a mobile phone apparently. By 2 pm Alibaba had sold over 2.1 million new phones, and just a few hours later JD.com had shifted 2.5 million. It wasn’t only JD and Alibaba offering discounts for Singles Day. More than 40,000 online merchants got in on the act, with deals on 30,000 brands and 6 million different kinds of products. Singles Day is gaining ground for shoppers in other countries, too. Bargain hunters from around 200 countries and regions cashed in on the holiday by buying from Chinese retailers offering discounts online.