It is called The Open. Its full name is The Open Championship. But in reality, it's just, The Open. The most prestigious golf tournament in the world. Some may argue and say that The Masters in Augusta is the most prestigious, but history is on the side of The Open. On Thursday morning, as they have for almost 150 years, the world's best golfers will gather to compete for The Jug. There are four major golf tournaments in the world. The PGA Championship, the US Open, the Masters and The Open. And while they are equal, perhaps The Open is a bit more equal than the others. It is, after all, the original and oldest. The last three Open championships held at Carnoustie were won in playoffs The first time they played The Open, in 1860, there were 8 players. They played 3 rounds on a 12-hole golf course in Prestwick on Scotland's west coast and the winner received a leather Moroccan belt. The first time Carnoustie hosted The Open was in 1931. Tommy Armour took home The Jug. On Thursday morning, 156 players will begin the four-day competition for the top prize of 1.42 million pounds (€1.60 million) but it is the name engraved on the Claret Jug on Sunday evening that is perhaps even more prestigious for the winner. Former world number one, Germany's Martin Kaymer,  tees off in the first group on Thursday at 7.35 a.m. (0635 UTC). Martin Kaymer practising on the Carnoustie course Tough course They have played golf in Carnoustie since the 16th century. It has hosted The Open seven times. At 7,400 yards, it is the longest Open course. It also has winds that make it a tough place to play golf. And it is a course that demands accuracy, with bunkers placed so strategically, that the slightest mistake will be costly. As legions of golfers have learned over the years. When talking about the course, professional golfers use a phrase called the "Carnoustie Effect." Its definition is: "That degree of mental and psychic shock experienced on collision with reality by those whose expectations are founded on false assumptions." It's a tough course. The weather is forecast to be good Thursday morning. Partly cloudy, a light breeze. Perfect golf weather. But then again, it is Scotland. Players will just have one day to enjoy the weather. Friday is a different day. There is a 60-80 percent chance of rain predicted with winds gusting to 25 kilometers per hour (15 miles per hour). Golf at Carnoustie on a nice day is tough. Throw in rain and wind and you have a recipe for a potential golf nightmare. The Field All the big names will be in attendance: Tiger, Rory, Phil, Rickie, Jordan and many more. Kaymer and his fellow-German, the veteran Bernhard Langer will compete and some folks even say that Langer is a dark horse to win. He won his first senior title at Carnoustie in 2010 so he knows he can play and win there. Bernhard Langer has won at Carnoustie and is being given an outside chance to win Scottish player Russell Knox is also someone to watch as he is coming off a spectacular win at the Irish Open a few weeks ago. This year's Master's champion Patrick Reed will be in attendance. Phil Mickelson — everyone's favorite and a former Open champion — will certainly show up to play. Rory McIlroy has won The Open and he is there too. And of course, there's Tiger. He has won The Open 3 times and while he has had his problems in the last couple of years, no one is writing Tiger off. But ultimately it is all speculation. There is golf, and then there is golf at Carnoustie. Who will emerge triumphant on Sunday and hoist The Jug. Time and the elements will tell. av/jm (Reuters, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.