A top security aide to French President Emmanuel Macron will be sacked after it emerged that he beat a protester during a demonstration in May, the president's office said Friday. Alexandre Benalla has also been detained and is being questioned by authorities for assault and impersonating a police officer. The damaging scandal hit the presidential Elysee Palace on Wednesday after Le Monde newspaper published a video of Benalla dragging away one protester before moments later hitting another during May Day protests in Paris. Benalla is seen in the video wearing a police helmet and surrounded by riot police. Taha Bouhafs, a student activist, posted the original video on Twitter. Benalla is not a policeman but had been given permission to "observe police operations" during a day-off for the May 1 public holiday, the Elysee Palace said Thursday as it sought to respond to a growing public backlash. Benalla had been suspended from his position and given a desk job for two weeks when the incident first came to light in May. However, he retained his office in the presidential palace, where he was responsible for organizing security for Macron's trips. Just days ago Benalla was seen helping to organize security for France's World Cup team celebrations. The president's office sought to dispel the notion that harsher action would be taken against Benalla only because the three-month-old incident had become public. The Elysee Palace told AFP news agency that "new elements" had emerged in the case, in particular that Benalla may have illegally received police surveillance footage in an attempt to prove his innocence. Three officers have also been suspended from the force for providing the footage, a source told AFP. Alexandre Benalla had worked on security during Macron's presidential campaign before moving to Elysee Palace Allegations of double standards The perceived lenient initial punishment of the aide opened up Macron's office to criticism that there had been a cover up and preferential treatment. Read more: Opinion: Labor Day should prompt workers to create a new union-led counterbalance Richard Ferrand, a senior MP from Macron's party and key figure in his campaign team, said "it was not a close aide, it's someone who was responsible for security of the president during the election campaign and then joined the Elysee." But opposition MPs were quick to suggest there had been a cover up and raised questions over why the incident had not been taken to the police when it was revealed in May. Read more: May traditions in Germany: Colorfully decorated trees, scary witches — and protests "This video is shocking. Today, we have the feeling that in Macron's entourage, one is above the law. It is obvious that Macron has to speak up about this," Laurent Wauquiez, president of conservative opposition party Les Republicains told Europe 1 radio. Socialist Party leader Olivier Faure said there was "a double standard" in how Benalla had been treated compared to any ordinary French citizen. Alexis Corbiere, an MP for the hard-left France Unbowed party, said Benalla "deserves to be punished with a prison sentence, at least a suspended sentence and with very heavy sanctions." Witches have supposedly been gathering in Germany's Harz since the mid-17th century to light fires and "hold revels with the devil." The event on April 30 still attracts thousands of visitors, and is spread across 20 locations around the Brocken Mountain. The focal point is Hexentanzplatz (Witches' Dance-floor) in the Harz Mountains. Dancing around a fire is not just part of Walpurgis Night. People light big bonfires in villages around Germany. In some regions, a witch doll made of straw and old clothing is thrown into the fire to chase away bad spirits. Decorated with streamers and sometimes wreaths, May poles are erected on market squares in many German villages. But in other places, even in big cities like Cologne, young male suitors place May trees adorned with hearts in front of their girlfriends' houses. Some like to jig around as a witch, others like a traditional folk dance. In southern Germany, young people don traditional costumes and dance through their village, singing songs celebrating the month of May. Then there's the more modern version of dance: "Mayday," Europe's largest indoor electronic music party. Here, ringing in the month of May means lot of bass and beats. May punch is a beverage mixed according to people's old family recipes. A main ingredient, along with wine, is sweet woodruff. Fruit also takes a prominent role. Invented by a Benedictine monk in the year 854 as a "medicinal drink" to strengthen heart and liver, people nowadays enjoy drinking it on a balmy spring evening in a beer garden. Drawing a line with a piece of chalk to point out a romantic relationship between two people is an old tradition in villages in Germany and Austria. The line can meander all the way through the village, ending in a great big heart in which the initials of the people involved are written. Demonstrating rather than celebrating: May 1 is International Labor Day. For those employed, it's an opportunity to take to the streets to demand better working conditions. Such demonstrations occur across Germany each year, but they go back to the demands of Australian demonstrators on May 1, 1856 for an eight-hour work day. Carousels and cotton candy: in many German cities, carnivals kick off in May. It's not just a place to get a sugar high and play crazy games, people can also have fun on all sorts of rides. Invented in 1644 in England, "Mother's Day" made its way to Germany in 1923, but the tradition of giving presents and flowers to one's mother didn't really take off until after World War II. Mother's Day is normally celebrated on the second Sunday in May. Author: Petra Lambeck (als) cw,law/kms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)