The DFB (German football association) statement released on Monday said it regretted but respected Mesut Özil's decision to retire from the national team. It also thanked the midfielder for his 92 international appearances for the country, as well as his "decisive role in Germany winning the World Cup in Brazil in 2014." It went on to stress that the integration work that it does on all levels of German football was of "central importance" to the DFB. It also conceded that it could have done better in managing the affair that started when Mesut Özil and Ilkay Gündogan had their pictures taken with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan prior to the World Cup in Russia. "We regret that Mesut Özil feels he has not been protected enough against racist insults towards his person," the statement said. It added that "it was important that Mesut Özil, in the same way Ilkay Gündogan did, explain the [Erdogan] photo, regardless of the sporting outcome in Russia. In the DFB, we win and lose together." No racism at the DFB The statement said the DFB would continue its "successful work on integration," while at the same time rejecting the notion that racism could have been behind the singling out of Özil after Germany's failure in Russia. "We clearly reject the idea that the DFB could be associated with racism, with regard to its representatives, employees, the clubs and the work of millions of volunteers," it said. "The DFB has been working hard in the service of integration in Germany for many years." However, the statement paled in comparison to some of the criticism it and its president, Reinhard Grindel (pictured above) have received from former DFB officials since Özil announced his retirement from international football on Sunday. 'Disappointed but not surprised' In his statement, the German midfielder of Turkish origin essentially accused Grindel of racism. "To you, Reinhard Grindel, I am disappointed but not surprised by your actions,"Özil said in his statement announcing his retirement from international football. "In 2004 whilst you were a German member of Parliament, you claimed that 'multiculturalism is in reality a myth [and] a lifelong lie.' whilst you voted against legislation for dual-nationalities and punishments for bribery, as well as saying that Islamic culture has become too ingrained in many German cities." He also noted that: "In the eyes of Grindel and his supporters, I am German when we win, but I am an immigrant when we lose." Grindel met with Özil and Gündogan to discuss the photos with Turkey's President Erdogan. 'Second-class German citizens' Theo Zwanziger, DFB president from 2006 until 2012, told German news agency DPA on Monday that he was "deeply saddened" by Özil's decision to withdraw from international football. "If it comes to a conflict, you have to try unbelievably quickly to settle it through dialogue," said Zwanziger, who criticized the DFB for how it has handled the situation. "The DFB failed to resolve it before the World Cup for whatever reason and now the issue has come up again," he said. "Due to mistakes in communication, something has happened that must never happen to migrants – they must never feel like second-class German citizens." 'Worst DFB president in 50 years' Former DFB spokesperson Harald Stenger went even further, calling on Grindel to step down. "The president of the DFB carries the political responsibility for how this case was handled," Stenger told German public broadcaster ARD on Monday. "He is responsible for the disastrous communication, and so it's time to talk about his resignation. And to some extent, that discussion has already started." Specifically, Stenger, who worked for the DFB from 2001 to 2012, said Grindel had changed his tune more than once over the course of the affair, and never managed to settle on a clear and consistent position. "I’ve known many DFB presidents over the years and I can say that Reinhard Grindel is the worst of them in the last 50 years," Stenger concluded. Özil joined the youth system of Bundesliga team Schalke in his hometown of Gelsenkirchen in 2005. His success on the international stage came early, winning the U21 European championship with Germany in 2009. Özil's club career has not disappointed those who once described him as "the next big thing." After a falling out with Schalke over salary, Özil moved to Werder Bremen in 2008. His performances for Germany in 2010's World Cup gained the attention of Europe's best clubs. He moved to Real Madrid in 2010 and later moved to English team Arsenal for a (then) club record €50 million (($58.7 million). In 2010. Özil won the Bambi — Germany's top media prize — for being a shining example of German integration. A third-generation German, he has always expressed pride in his Turkish roots, while emphasizing that his life has been devoted to Germany. An observant Muslim, he posted pictures of himself making the Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca in 2016. Seen here meeting Chancellor Angela Merkel after defeating Turkey in 2012, the attacking midfielder has attracted a legions of loyal fans for his quiet, unassuming personality and philanthropy. He would later be applauded for donating his 2014 World Cup winnings to Brazilian children in need of life-saving surgery and for meeting with Syrian refugee children in Jordan. Özil started in all seven games of Germany's sucessful World Cup run in Brazil in 2014. Known as "Löw's playmaker," the midfielder has a close relationship with German national coach Joachim Löw. He ended the tournament leading in passes completed in the final third and was behind only Argentina superstar Lionel Messi in chances created. Özil has met Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan several times, most recently in May 2018, leading to a photo opportunity that many resoundingly condemned — from the political left for his apparent support of an authoritarian leader, and from the right for a perceived lack of loyalty to Germany. Germany crashed out in the group stage of the 2018 World Cup in Russia — the national team's worst performance in decades. The president of the DFB, Reinhard Grindel, attempted to deflect criticism from himself by blaming Özil's Erodgan meeting for distracting the team. Grindel's reaction drew intense criticism from German politicians and soccer fans. In an eviscerating statement on Twitter, Özil resigned from international play in July 2018, aged 29. "I will no longer stand for being a scapegoat for his incompentence," the footballer said of Grindel. Accusing the DFB president of racism, he thanked Löw and others in the German team for their support. In total, he played 92 matches for Germany, scored 23 goals, and registered 40 assists. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher