German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer dramatically re-escalated the row over asylum policy on Sunday evening by saying Chancellor Angela Merkel's European Union asylum deal did not "have the same effect" as the national measures for which he has been pushing. According to reports from sources within the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavarian sister party to Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU), party leader and immigration hardliner Seehofer also said that his crunch meeting with the chancellor on Saturday evening had "not had any effect" on their conflict. This was a direct contradiction of Merkel's account of the meeting, which she delivered in an interview with public broadcaster ZDF on Sunday. "The sum of everything we have decided has the same effect [as national measures]," she said. "That is my personal conclusion. Of course the CSU will have to decide that for itself." Read more: German politicians cautious on Merkel's migration deal Working together? The chancellor also said that she had made concessions to Seehofer's demands. "I would like very much for the CDU and CSU to continue working together," she added. "Because we are a success story for Germany." Merkel made a number of concessions over asylum policy to EU partners in Brussels The leaderships of the CDU and CSU are meeting separately in Berlin and Munich on Sunday to discuss whether and how the two parties, who have been allied since 1949, will continue to work together. The CSU is facing a state election in Bavaria in October, and has opted to take a hard-line anti-immigration stance as its main campaign strategy. The chancellor's claim that the CSU's demands had been fulfilled by the EU deal was contradicted by some CSU politicians entering the meeting in Munich, who maintained that it was up to the party to decide. There is also a difference of opinion between the two parties about whether the EU deal allows unilateral action by member states on closing borders or not. Sunday's long-planned TV interview with Merkel could barely have been scheduled at a more inconvenient moment for the chancellor, as at the same time the CDU was preparing to meet for vital talks across town in Berlin. Many of her answers therefore stalled until after that discussion, and that of the CSU in Munich. But she vehemently defended the deals she had struck in Brussels last week, where she gave a number of concessions to other EU countries. But in the meantime, right-wing governments in Hungary and Poland have since said they have not reached any new deals on asylum. Where is the 'master plan?' Prominent CDU figures were tight-lipped as they entered the talks in Berlin, though it was clear they saw the crisis as extremely serious for Germany. Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said Germany's "reputation" was on the line, as well as the government's ability to function. It was also painfully clear that the CDU could do little but wait for a CSU press conference, and a statement by Seehofer, which expected but continually put off in Munich later in the evening. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30Zgo The interior minister's "master plan," which triggered the present German government crisis, would see asylum-seekers who had already been registered elsewhere being shut out of Germany – a potential breach of EU law and the Geneva convention on refugees' rights. After Merkel rejected the plan, Seehofer set the chancellor a deadline of July 1 to find a "European solution" to the issue of so-called "secondary migration," referring to asylum-seekers crossing internal EU borders after having already applied for asylum elsewhere in the EU. Though the master plan remains unpublished, it emerged on Sunday evening that Seehofer had handed it out at the CSU meeting, and that it had not been made available to the CDU leadership in Berlin. Photos of individual pages of the plan were circulated on Twitter, which confirmed that Seehofer still intended to turn asylum-seekers away. When Merkel rejected the plan two weeks ago, Seehofer threatened to implement his border control measures unilaterally, using his authority as interior minister over the federal police. If that were to happen, Merkel could overrule him, which would likely lead to his resignation.