A court order is required for the prolonged physical restraint of psychiatric patients, Germany's top court ruled on Tuesday. The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe ruled in favor of two patients who sued the states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, claiming they had been illegally restrained for long periods of time against their will. Judges declared portions of Baden-Württemberg's laws regarding the issue unconstitutional. Bavaria has no laws regulating the restraint of patients. Judges ordered the states to comply with new federal guidelines by June 30, 2019. Until then, however, they will be allowed to continue to restrain patients without a court order as they have in the past. The ruling in detail Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/321Ge New law creates clarity Observers were generally pleased with the Court's ruling. Arno Deister, President of the German Society for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Psychosomatic and Neurology (DGPPN), called the decision heartening as, "it creates clear, long overdue rules that apply to all." He pointed out that currently only the states of North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony require a court order before patients can be restrained. Critics say it legalizes torture Martina Heland-Graef a representative from the Federal Association of Psychiatry Experienced (Persons), however, criticized the Karlsruhe ruling. She had hoped for a much more far-reaching decision and claims Tuesday's verdict did no more than legalize a practice that the United Nation Human Rights Convention defines as torture. Read more: Can ecstasy combat the effects of PTSD? She pointed out that a number of other approaches can be taken to effectively quiet a patient, adding: "Once they have been forcibly restrained they can never forget the experience." js/rt (AFP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.