French President Emmanuel Macron faced criticism on Wednesday, after Le Monde newspaper published what it said was a video of one of his top security officers hitting a protester online. Macron's office said Alexandre Benalla was suspended from his position for two weeks over the filmed incident, which shows Benalla wearing a police helmet and hitting a demonstrator with other police officers on May 1. Labor unions hold demonstrations every year on May Day in France, which often lead to police involvement. Read more: Opinion: Labor Day should prompt workers to create a new union-led counterbalance Benalla, who has previously worked as bodyguard, is not a policeman but had been given permission to "observe police operations" during a day-off for the May 1 public holiday, said presidential palace spokesman Bruno Roger-Petit. "Clearly, he went beyond this ... he was immediately summoned by the president's chief of staff and given a 15-day suspension. This comes as a punishment for unacceptable behavior," Roger-Petit said. In addition to the suspension in May, Benalla was also transferred out of his job organizing security for Macron's trips, a punishment opposition MPs seemed to think was too lenient. Gilbert Collard, deputy leader of Marine Le Pen's far-right National Rally party, posted the video at the center of the controversy on Twitter. 'A double standard' Richard Ferrand, a senior MP from Macron's party and key figure in his campaign team, said "it was not a close aide, it's someone who was responsible for security of the president during the election campaign and then joined the Elysee." But opposition MPs were quick to suggest there had been a cover up and raised questions over why the incident had not been taken to the police when it was revealed in May. Read more: May traditions in Germany: Colorfully decorated trees, scary witches — and protests "This video is shocking. Today, we have the feeling that in Macron's entourage, one is above the law. It is obvious that Macron has to speak up about this," Laurent Wauquiez, president of conservative opposition party Les Republicains told Europe 1 radio. Socialist Party leader Olivier Faure said there was "a double standard" in how Benalla had been treated compared to any ordinary French citizen. Alexis Corbiere, an MP for the hard-left France Unbowed party, said Benalla "deserves to be punished with a prison sentence, at least a suspended sentence and with very heavy sanctions." Witches have supposedly been gathering in Germany's Harz since the mid-17th century to light fires and "hold revels with the devil." The event on April 30 still attracts thousands of visitors, and is spread across 20 locations around the Brocken Mountain. The focal point is Hexentanzplatz (Witches' Dance-floor) in the Harz Mountains. Dancing around a fire is not just part of Walpurgis Night. People light big bonfires in villages around Germany. In some regions, a witch doll made of straw and old clothing is thrown into the fire to chase away bad spirits. Decorated with streamers and sometimes wreaths, May poles are erected on market squares in many German villages. But in other places, even in big cities like Cologne, young male suitors place May trees adorned with hearts in front of their girlfriends' houses. Some like to jig around as a witch, others like a traditional folk dance. In southern Germany, young people don traditional costumes and dance through their village, singing songs celebrating the month of May. Then there's the more modern version of dance: "Mayday," Europe's largest indoor electronic music party. Here, ringing in the month of May means lot of bass and beats. May punch is a beverage mixed according to people's old family recipes. A main ingredient, along with wine, is sweet woodruff. Fruit also takes a prominent role. Invented by a Benedictine monk in the year 854 as a "medicinal drink" to strengthen heart and liver, people nowadays enjoy drinking it on a balmy spring evening in a beer garden. Drawing a line with a piece of chalk to point out a romantic relationship between two people is an old tradition in villages in Germany and Austria. The line can meander all the way through the village, ending in a great big heart in which the initials of the people involved are written. Demonstrating rather than celebrating: May 1 is International Labor Day. For those employed, it's an opportunity to take to the streets to demand better working conditions. Such demonstrations occur across Germany each year, but they go back to the demands of Australian demonstrators on May 1, 1856 for an eight-hour work day. Carousels and cotton candy: in many German cities, carnivals kick off in May. It's not just a place to get a sugar high and play crazy games, people can also have fun on all sorts of rides. Invented in 1644 in England, "Mother's Day" made its way to Germany in 1923, but the tradition of giving presents and flowers to one's mother didn't really take off until after World War II. Mother's Day is normally celebrated on the second Sunday in May. Author: Petra Lambeck (als) law/kms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)