Four more members of a Thai youth football team were brought out of a flooded cave on Monday during phase two of a difficult rescue mission. Television footage showed ambulances leaving the Tham Luang Nang Non cave site in northern Thailand, where 12 boys and their soccer coach had been trapped for more than a fortnight. Five people now remain inside, with eight rescued thus far. "We have helped four more children today," rescue chief Narongsak Osottanakorn said. "The eighth person is out and the operation is done for today," added Sitthichai Klangpattana, flag officer to Thailand's navy SEAL commander. Read more: The Thai cave rescue and our longing for clarity On Sunday — the first day of the mission — four boys were rescued from the cave in an operation that involved divers  guiding them through narrow, winding passages filled with muddy water and strong currents. Authorities were racing to rescue the remaining boys and their 25-year-old coach before monsoon rains cause the floodwater to rise, with efforts expected to continue on Tuesday. Rescue divers found the 12 young soccer players and their coach alive on July 3 after they went missing in a Thai cave 10 days earlier. Fighting against time, rain and low oxygen levels, rescuers managed to successfully free the first four boys on July 8. The mission is far from over, as the rescuers face a complicated and dangerous diving mission to free the rest of the team and their coach. Thai rescuers are being assisted by an international team comprising experts from China, Australia, the US and Britain. A video from the Thai Navy SEAL Facebook page showed the group several kilometers inside the 10-kilometer (6-mile) cave network on a small wedge of dry ground. The boys had moved 400 meters further in as the ledge had become covered by water. The boys, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach entered the cave to celebrate a birthday. They became trapped in the cave, a local tourist spot where similar incidents have taken place in the past, when sudden rainfall flooded its entry on June 23. Authorities have brought the group high-protein gels and supplies to last for four months and have been trying to install a phone line. The rescue mission is proving to be difficult for divers whose efforts are continually hampered by rising water that has filled sections of the cave, often forcing them to stop. Getting trained divers in is easier than getting untrained kids out. "We have to be 100 percent confident that there is no risk to the boys before we evacuate," provincial governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. The entire nation is glued to the media coverage of the rescue mission, and Thai authorities have insisted they will not compromise on the safety of the trapped group. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha (above, at right) thanked international experts who helped find the boys. Families of the teenage soccer players expressed their joy over the discovery of the boys nine days after they went missing. Outside the cave, the mother of one of the boys said she was "glad" for a glimpse of her son. "He's thinner," she said, as she ran her finger over the image of her son on a television screen. The first four boys were rescued by a team of 13 foreign diving experts and Thai navy SEALS, who helped them navigate the flooded cave tunnels. The head of the rescue operation said they were the healthiest in the group. Rescuers are racing against time and heavy, monsoon rains that are expected to hit the area in the next few days. Authorities estimate the entire operation, which began on July 8, will take two to three days to complete. The rescue operation so far: Complicated rescue: Thirteen foreign divers and five members of Thailand's navy SEAL unit are taking part in the operation to free the young soccer players and their coach. Officials say it could take up to four days to get the entire team out. Each round trip from the rescue camp to the rocky shelf where the group is trapped takes about 11 hours. As well as diving through tight submerged passageways, the rescuers and boys also have to contend with oxygen-depleted air. A former Thai navy SEAL died making the dive on Friday. Two weeks underground: A massive rescue operation was launched after the boys, aged 11-16, and their coach went missing on June 23. The footballers were exploring the cave after a practice game when flash flooding blocked their escape route. They were discovered by British divers nine days later. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/312As nm/ng (AFP, AP) 