In Germany, students who have completed compulsory education and are under 27 have the opportunity to spend a year doing voluntary work in the social or environmental sector. It's an opportunity for them to consider careers — yet what they learn often has a lasting impact on their futures. Although it's technically called a "volunteer" program, participants are actually paid for their work. To find out more, I accompanied a group of young volunteers at the Biological Station Bonn in western Germany. First, let's be upfront: I am terrified of snakes. About 14 years ago, a snake-like creature slithered across the path in front of me at this very spot. It's the first time I've been back since that fateful day. While I work up the nerve to face my fears, Wiebke Börner stops the station's transporter. Years ago, she also worked here as part of the program. Now, she's taking the young workers under her wing. She calmly asks them to mow a meadow in the Siebengebirge hill range, part of one of the oldest nature reserves in Germany. Wiebke Börner (right) gives instructions on how to mow the grass Protecting nature As I keep an eye out for snakes, the young people prepare to head out, brushcutters in hand. Two of them, Tim and Jake, each grab helmets with ear and eye protection and proudly march through the tall, wild plants. In the past, the excessive use of fertilizer for agriculture resulted in the loss of many plant species. Now, some of them have returned to this spot — but they require nutrient-poor soil to survive. Twice every summer, the volunteers remove plants that have absorbed the excess nutrients from the meadow. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2xC43 They also stop invasive species like Robinia pseudoacacia, or black locust, which is native to the United States, from spreading further. "They were planted here after the war, and they grow fast," Börner says. "Their wood can be processed into furniture, but conservation-wise, this invasive species can be rather annoying." Börner says. For the protection of nesting birds, wood can only be cut here between October and the end of February. The newly shorn grassland reveals an entirely different side to nature. Large grasshoppers — almost invisible thanks to their green camouflage — cling to stalks. Slugs and snails emerge from beneath houses and seek out a shady place in the greenery. White and brown butterflies flutter by in search of the nectar of colorful flowers. "We have learned to identify endangered plants, as well as specific amphibians," Jule, one of the volunteers, says with a smile. They use special traps to count the number of endangered crested newts: "More newts were then released for breeding at the ponds," says Jule. Jule and Tim use the brushcutter with caution — this can be dangerous work Despite the heat, everyone is wearing closed-toed shoes. "Could there be snakes here?" I ask Börner. "Definitely — but they only come out from under the stones or boards when it's sunny. When I see a snake I consider it a good luck sign," she adds cheerfully. I grimace. The volunteers have rearranged the partially rotten boards into a makeshift shelter for reptiles, Jule explains. She spots a small snail on her boot and places it on the grass. "It's nice to be in nature," she says. "It's exhausting, but we do so many different jobs!" Climbing trees during the apple harvest in the fall and pressing the fruits for juice are just some of the more memorable moments the students have had so far. Orientation for life Jule is full of enthusiasm — despite getting a nasty cut from the thorns of the blackberry hedge. It seems like she's found her passion. But, surprisingly, she no longer plans to study biology or landscape architecture. Instead, she now wants to study interior design. "Landscape architecture is more theory than practice," she says. "I'm more interested in art and design." Verena, on the other hand, had initially wanted to become an agricultural scientist, but after four semesters of study, she decided it wasn't for her. She regrets not having done a voluntary year like this one before starting down her study path. "I didn't know about the program, otherwise I would have started directly with landscape ecology." The volunteers help protect endangered species in the area Verena isn't interested in industrial famring, rather she now wants to help protect nature. Despite the fact that she will only stay here for three months, she's still happy that she has the chance to gain some practical experience. Everyone here feels like they play important part, which motivates encourages them to do to best job they can, Verena adds. Co-volunteer Tim agrees. "I've learned a lot about the sense of duty ... which I never did during school," says the 18-year-old. He says he feels like he has matured a lot since starting the program. The benefits of working in nature "Lunch!" somebody shouts through the thicket. Börner makes sure the volunteers get regular breaks, but she says it's unusual for someone to skip a day of work. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/301qr It's clear to see that these young people seem very well-balanced and relaxed. "At the beginning of the year, I was always quite tired at night, but now I've gotten used to the work, I have more energy now, and on the weekend I feel the urge to be active," Jule says. In a month, the year-long program will come to an end. With excitement and a bit of sadness, the volunteers will begin a new chapter in their lives. "I'm happy, on the one hand, to start something new," Jule says. "But I also have everyone here in my heart and I will be sad when I no longer see the others every day." After the break, everyone returns to their work without so much as a single complaint. "Drinking enough water and using suncreen is very important when working outdoors," Jule says, reaching for the bottle as the sun breaks through the clouds. If they're lucky, the afternoon warmth may even lure some reptiles out of their hiding places. The volunteers would be delighted. But sadly, I have to head back to the office. The "BT11" in Kühlungsborn is a former East German border watch tower. From 1973 to 1989, Costal Brigade soldiers used to be on the lookout for escapees. Those looking to flee the communist country would try to reach the coast of Schleswig-Holstein or a passing ship from here. Today, the tower is a listed monument and one of the last surviving of some 70 such lookouts along the coast. The former death strip along the East-West border has proven to be a stroke of luck for nature, even 26 years after the Iron Curtain was opened. The Green Belt between the Elbe Altmark marshes and the Wendland seems to magically attract migratory birds. Large flocks of geese, swans, ducks, and cranes stop and rest here every autumn on their way south. Ninety-five of the altogether 1,091 kilometers of the Elbe River used to be part of the exclusion area of the inner German border. Subsequently it has remained mostly untouched - like here near the village of Lenzen - making it one of the few surviving natural waterways. With its changing water levels, it forms the wetlands that make up the UNESCO-listed Middle Elbe Biosphere Reserve. The main function of the East German blockade was to prevent citizens from escaping. This makes it different from other border posts, where guards would face outwards to defend against threats from the outside. In Hötersleben you can see some original parts of the border posts, including watch towers and anti-vehicle obstacles. This northern part of the Harz region is characterized by gently rolling hills from which the Grosse Fallstein emerges as a special vantage point. The 70-kilometer cycling tour along the Green Belt from Hornburg to Ilsenburg is particularly attractive. It leads past orchards, fields and chestnut-lined roads, and through untouched nature and the remains of former border posts. Located on the former inner German border, the peak known as the Brocken was inaccessible to citizens of both West and East Germany during the Cold War and subsequently became a symbol of the country's division. With the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Brocken again became a center of interest and has drawn countless visitors since reunification. This symbolic memorial to mark reunification of both German states in Sorge close to Wenigerode is a circular area into which dead wood has been placed on a diameter of 70 meters. Artist Herman Prigann said that as this tree rampart slowly becomes overgrown with plants, it will encourage reflections on decay and growth. The border post is all that remains of the former inner German frontier on the Warteberg by Nordhausen. In the shadow of the Iron Curtain along the former patrol path, habitats and refuges for rare animal and plant species have developed. Endangered species like orchids, black storks and large saw-tailed bush crickets have found safe retreats. The Borderland Museum Eichsfeld has been situated at the former Duderstadt/Worbis border crossing since 1995. Until 1989 nearly six million travelers used the border crossing between the villages of Gerblingerode in the West and Teistungen in the East. The history of German division is displayed over some 1,000 square meters. This includes former border security posts and frontier barriers. During the Cold War, the Staufhain mountain and the village of the same name were located in an area that could only be accessed by border soldiers. The ruin was turned into an observation tower and listening post. The surrounding forest grew unhindered and soon it became a mountain of dreams. On December 3, 1989, the mountain was opened to visitors for the first time. Our tour of the Green Belt ends in Mödlareuth, a village of 50 people. American soldiers used to call it "Little Berlin," because, like its big brother Berlin, it became symbolic of Germany's division. Like in the German capital, the Thuringian-Bavarian Mödlareuth was divided until 1989 by a concrete wall that was 700 meters (765 yards) long and 3.4 meters thick. The Iron Curtain divided Germany and Europe for nearly four decades. Walls, barbed wire and watch towers separated families and friends. What was once separated is now united by nature. The Green Belt is the first pan-German nature preserve. Author: Laura Diringer