Britain will not seek the usual assurances that its citizens facing trial in the United States do not receive the death penalty in the case of suspected "Islamic State" (IS) fighters Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, according to a report in a British newspaper published on Monday. Kotey and Elsheikh are suspected of being members of a four-man IS gang dubbed "The Beatles," which was notorious for videotaping its beheadings of high-profile Western captives. The two men were captured in Syria by the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in January and are still being held by the group. Britain and the United States have discussed how and where they should face justice. Read more: Syrian Kurdish forces capture two British 'IS' militants — US officials According to a leaked letter written by Home Secretary Sajid Javid to the US attorney general, excerpts of which were published in the Telegraph, the UK wants "these individuals to face justice in the most appropriate jurisdiction which maximizes collective chances of a successful prosecution." Javid appeared to waive Britain's long-standing opposition to the death penalty in order to allow the two suspects face trial in the United States. "I am of the view that there are strong reasons for not requiring a death penalty assurance in this specific case, so no such assurances will be sought," he wrote in the letter last month. However, he added that the decision did "not reflect a change in our policy on assistance in US death penalty cases generally." Read more: 'Islamic State' claims beheading of Japanese journalist Kenji Goto 'Higher profile' suspects In the transcript published by the newspaper, Javid said Britain considered the two suspects distinct from the "broader strategic issue of detained foreign terrorist fighters" for three reasons: Fearing a precedent Prime Minister Theresa May echoed Javid's wishes for a successful proscecution. May's spokeswoman said, "We are continuing to engage with the US government on this issue and our priority is to make sure that these men face criminal prosecution." She acknowledged Britian's long-held opposition to the death penalty. Human rights group Amnesty International criticized the apparent wavering of Britain's stance in this case, tweeting that UK opposition to the death penalty should not be compromised even in view of the "appalling" nature of the two men's alleged crimes. Read more: Israeli leaders back death penalty for 'terrorists' Beheadings The most notorious member of the cell — dubbed "The Beatles" on account of their British accents — was Mohammed Emwazi, known as "Jihadi John," who appeared in videos showing the murders of US journalists Steven Sotloff and James Foley, US aid worker Abdul-Rahman Kassig, British aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning, Japanese journalist Kenji Goto and other hostages. Emwazi is believed to have been killed in a US-British missile strike in 2015. Death penalty The mother of James Foley told BBC radio she did not want the suspects to be executed if found guilty, because it "would just make them martyrs in their twisted ideology."   Amnesty International's Allan Hogarth said the case "seriously jeopardizes the UK's position as a strong advocate for the abolition of the death penalty." Britain's defense secretary, Gavin Williamson, said earlier this year that he did not want the two suspects to be returned to the UK because "they are no longer part of Britain." The "Islamic State" (IS) — also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh — is an al-Qaida splinter group with a militant Sunni Islamist ideology. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Their goal is to create a worldwide "caliphate." It gained worldwide notoriety in 2014 after a blitzkrieg military campaign that resulted in the capture of Mosul. IS is believed to be operational in more than a dozen countries across the world. It controls territories in Iraq and Syria. However, the group has lost much of the territory it controlled in Iraq and Syria at the height of its expansion in 2014. The US leads an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia, Iran and its Lebanese Shiite ally Hezbollah, which all support the Syrian government, also fight IS. Regional forces such as the Kurdish peshmerga (above) and US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters, fight IS on the ground. The Iraqi army and militia have pushed IS from large parts of the country. One of IS' main sources of income has been oil and gas. At one point, it controlled an estimated one-third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led airstrikes deliberately targeted oil resources and the Syrian government as well as US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters have retaken most oil wells. Other means of income include taxes, ransom, selling looted antiquities and extortion. IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The militant group has targeted capitals across the EU, including Berlin, Brussels and Paris. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group. The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artifacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing." The group has also enslaved thousands of women from religious minority groups, including Yazidis. IS also uses a sophisticated social network to distribute propaganda and recruit sympathizers. IS has further exacerbated the ongoing Syrian conflict. Millions of Syrians and Iraqis have fled their homes, many traveling to Europe in pursuit of refuge. Although it has lost all of its strongholds, the militant group has left extraordinary destruction in its wake. Areas affected by the militant group's rule will likely take years to rebuild. Author: Rachel Stewart kw, tj (Reuters, DPA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.