Weeks of heavy rain caused the Patel dam in the Kenyan town Solai to burst late on Wednesday, with government officials saying Thursday that the gushing water has led to loss of life and property. "The water has caused huge destruction of both life and property. The extent of the damage has yet to be ascertained," said Lee Kinyanjui, governor of Nakuru, the county where the dam is located. Local police chief Japheth Kioko said that at least 47 people had been killed, warning the figure could rise. Many more still remain missing, according to authorities. "We have set up a center near the scene for families to report missing members to enable us to reunite them," Govenor Kinyanjui added. He told Kenyan broadcaster KTN that emergency efforts included providing food and material provisions like blankets and clothes to those affected, many of whom are low income families, as well as psychological assistance. Kibunjah described the dam as a disaster: "Most people were asleep when the tragedy occurred and their houses were swept away," he said in remarks to AFP. He added that the deluge of silt and water swept away nearly an entire village. The town of Solai is located in the Rift Valley, some 190 kilometers (120 miles) northwest of the capital of Nairobi. The Patel dam was located on a large commercial farm on top of a hill. Read more: Communities in Kenya and Somalia engulfed by floodwaters Homeless, hospitalized and missing Survivors described a "sea of water" that swept away powerlines, homes and buildings, including a primary school. KTN interviewed a schoolboy who described having to evacuate his schoolroom: Witness told the Daily Nation, a widely circulated Kenya newspaper, that they heard an "explosion" before water and mud poured out, sweeping away hundreds of homes. Officials said the damage radius extended nearly two kilometers (1.2 miles): The paper reported that the dam burst left over 500 families left homeless and affected around 2,500 residents. The Kenyan Red Cross tweeted that 39 people had been taken to the hospital as a result of the collapsed dam. Search and rescue operations are currently underway: Heavy rain has battered Kenya and other East African nations over the past two months. The rains have killed at least 132 Kenyans and displaced over 222,000, government statistics released Wednesday said. Read more: Opinion: Heavy rains and floods call for 'national action' in Tanzania The Patel dam is one of three dams in the area. The other two have high volumes of water, but remain intact, the Daily Nation said. Kenya's Cabinet Secretary for the Interior, Fred Matiangi, arrived in Solai on Thursday to review te damage. He pledged central government assistance in dealing with the disaster. Nakuru county, where Solai is located, lies in Kenya's fertile Rift Valley where thousands of commercial farms produce agricultural exports for Europe. Irrigation resevoirs dot the area. Residents fear that other dams may burst. Volunteers have been searching for survivors of the dam burst in Solai Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.