May 23 - Bayer Leverkusen announced on Wednesday that they have signed Eintracht Frankfurt goalkeeper Lukas Hradecky on a free transfer. The Finnish goalkeeper, whose contract with Frankfurt is set to expire in June, has signed a five-year deal until June 2023. Hradecky, 28, spent three seasons in Frankfurt, replacing Kevin Trapp when the German international signed with French side Paris-Saint Germain in 2015. He started all 40 games for Frankfurt in the Bundesliga and the German Cup this season, helping his side win the latter on Saturday. - Freiburg announced on Wednesday that they have signed Dominique Heintz from recently relegated Cologne, activating his €3 million ($3.5 million) buyout clause. Heintz, 24, has spent the last three seasons in Cologne after joining from Kaiserslautern before the 2015-16 season. Freiburg did not reveal the length of the contract Heintz signed. - Hannover announced on Wednesday that they have acquired Japanese forward Takuma Asano on a one-year loan agreement with Arsenal. Asano, 23, spent the last two seasons at Stuttgart on loan from the London-based club, helping the German club achieve promotion from the second division. He made 18 first team appearances last season for Stuttgart, scoring once. May 22 - Leon Balogun has signed with Premier League side Brighton and Hove Albion, the club announced on Tuesday. Balogun, a Nigerian international who was born in Berlin, spent the past three seasons with Mainz. The 29-year-old defender's contract with Mainz is set to expire in June. He joins a Brighton side that will be entering its second season in the Premier League after earning promotion in 2017. - Wolfsburg announced on Tuesday that they have appointed Jörg Schmadtke to be the club's new sporting director. The Wolves parted ways with Olaf Rebbe earlier this month after they qualified for the relegation playoff for a second consecutive season. Schmadtke held a similar position at Cologne before being fired last October. - Fortuna Düsseldorf announced on Tuesday that they have signed left-footed defender Diego Contento from French side Bordeaux. The former Bayern Munich defender signed a two-year contract until June 2020. Contento, 28 spent the last four seasons in Bordeaux, but he made just four appearances at the club this past season. - Forward Julian Schieber has signed a three-year deal with Augsburg, the club announced on Tuesday. The German striker's contract with Hertha Berlin is set to expire at the end of June, bringing an end to a four-year stint in the German capital. Schieber, 29, made just four appearances this season for Hertha, scoring one goal. May 19 - Borussia Dortmund have confirmed the signing of FC Augsburg goalkeeper Marwin Hitz. The Swiss keeper, whose contract runs out this summer, joins on a free transfer putting pen to paper on a three-year-deal lasting until 2021. "After five very valuable years at Augsburg, both in a sporting and personal sense, I wanted to experience something different. I'm looking forward to the challenges facing me at a big club like BVB, especially the UEFA Champions League matches." With Roman Weidenfeller bringing his hanging up his boots following a sterling career earlier this month, Hitz has been brought in to compete in a Swiss showdown with international teammate Roman Bürki for the starting role in Dortmund.  May 18 - Borussia Mönchengladbach have signed Keanan Bennetts from Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur. The 19-year-old Englishman has signed a contract that will keep him with the Foals until 2022. "Keanan can play in several offensive positions and played for Tottenham in the Premier League 2 and the UEFA youth league last season," Gladbach's sporting director, Max Eberl, said in a statement released by the club. "We believe he is capable of making it in the Bundesliga and we are pleased that he chose Borussia." Bennetts joins two fellow Englishmen at the club; Reece Oxford, who spent the last season there on loan from West Ham, and Mandela Egbo, who has mainly played for the reserves. Gladbach are reportedly looking to make the Oxford move permanent. All three have represented England at youth levels. May 17 - Schalke announced on Thursday that they have acquired midfielder Suat Serdar from Mainz. The German under-21 international has signed a four-year contract until 2022. Serdar, 20, is much-needed depth in central midfield as Schalke are set to lose Max Meyer and Leon Goretzka on free transfers. May 16 - Werder Bremen have announced the signing of Yuya Osako. The 27-year-old Japanese attacker moves from relegated Cologne for an undisclosed fee, believed to be in the region of five million euros. - Osako had six goals and three assists in all competitions for Cologne last season. He is the second big name to leave the relegated side in three days after Leonardo Bittencourt joined Hoffenheim.  May 15 - Hoffenheim are capitalizing on their direct Champions League qualification and getting some serious business done. Just 24 hours after signing Leonardo Bittencourt from Cologne, they've now completed a move for Algerian international Ishak Belfodil. The 26-year-old forward had been on loan at Werder Bremen from Standard Liège, and has signed a four-year contract. "Ishak can up top, behind the striker or on the flanks, so he fits our profile perfectly," said sporting director Alexander Rosen. "He is a dangerous forward who is physically and technically strong and who also has great pace. Belfodil recorded six goals and an assist in 29 competitive appearances for Bremen this season, having scored 17 goals in 40 games for Liège. May 14 - Stuttgart bolstered their defense on Monday, announcing the signings of Marc-Oliver Kempf, Pablo Maffeo and Borna Sosa. Maffeo, who arrives from English league champion Manchester City, signed a five-year contract. As did Sosa, who currently plays for Croatian side Dynamo Zagreb. Kempf, whose contract with Freiburg expires in June, inked a four-year deal. The German side, who could participate in the Europa League next season, also added midfielders David Kopasz from Borussia Dortmund and Robert Massimo from Arminia Bielefeld, though Massimo will return to Bielefeld on loan. The club also extended the contracts of defender Emiliano Insua and backup goalkeeper Jens Grahl. - Hoffenheim announced on Monday that they have signed Cologne winger Leonardo Bittencourt. The 24-year-old German has signed a five-year contract with the club. Bittencourt registered five goals and six assists this past season for Cologne, who were relegated to the second division. Leonardo Bittencourt was a stand-out performer for a Cologne - when fit. May 13 - After playing seven and a half seasons with Werder Bremen, midfielder Zlatko Junuzovic will play for Red Bull Salzburg next season. The 30-year-old, whose deal with Bremen expires at the end of June, has signed a three-year deal with the Austrian champions. Junuzovic made 198 appearances for Bremen and scored 54 goals. May 11 - The Robbery era continues. Arjen Robben has signed a one-year contract extension with Bayern Munich after Franck Ribery did the same four days ago. The Dutch winger is about to complete his ninth season with the Bavarians but is currently recovering from a groin injury. Rafinha has also extended with the Bundesliga champions for another season. Read more: Arjen Robben and Rafinha both pen new Bayern Munich deals May 8 - Bayer Leverkusen have acquired Mitchell Weiser from Hertha Berlin, activating a €12 million ($14.4 million) buyout clause in his contract. The 24-year-old defender won the under-21 European Championship with Germany in 2017 and made 31 appearances for Hertha this past season. Weiser has signed a five-year deal with Leverkusen.