"Our two countries have never been so close to an agreement; but there are still important steps to be taken," Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipris told the central committee of his party, SYRIZA. Greece and Macedonia have been working for months towards a rapprochement and an end to the name dispute that has dragged on since 1991. "Republic of Ilindenska Macedonia" is the new suggestion; neither side was fully satisfied with alternatives such as "North Macedonia" or "New Macedonia." The new proposal was put forward during the EU summit last week in the Bulgarian capital Sofia, where a meeting also took place between the leaders of the two countries. Zoran Zaev, the prime minister of Macedonia, suggested the name, a reference to the Ilinden Uprising, and made it known that his government had given it the green light. As well as Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the geographic region of Macedonia extends into Albania, Bulgaria and Serbia as well as small areas of Kosovo (which you can't quite see here). The ancient kingdom of Macedonia – or Macedon – was a relatively small part of the present day Greek province of Macedonia. It first expanded under King Perdiccas I, then widened to take in other areas. After the fall of the Greek Empire, the Romans – who admired Alexander – used the old name Macedonia for the province encompassing much of northern Greece and the area north of it – including much of the modern-day Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. With the breakup of the Roman Empire into East and West, this region was overrun by the Slavic invasions. An entirely new province far to the east, including part of Thrace in modern-day Turkey, was named Macedonia by the Byzantine Empress Irene of Athens. The geographic region known as Macedonia today roughly equates to the part of the Ottoman Empire known as Ottoman Vardar Macedonia. It included Greek and Slavic areas and was split into three administrative units, but the concept of Macedonia persisted. This remained the case for centuries and so this concept – of what Macedonia is – has stuck. ...and there's certainly a fair bit of overlap — and room for confusion. Of course, Macedonia's King Alexander the Great's realm stretched all the way to India — but it would be a bit of a stretch to call that Macedonia As if it weren’t complicated enough, there’s another meaning of the word Macedonia. In Greece and many Latin-language-speaking countries, it’s also a fruit salad. The name is thought to have ben popularized at the end of the 18th century, referring to either the ethnic diversity of Alexander's vast empire or the ethnic mix of Ottoman Macedonia. Author: Richard Connor However, opposition parties, whose support Yaev needs, rejected the proposal on Sunday. This 1903 uprising against the Ottoman Empire took place in the small town of Krusevo in the territory of what is now the Republic of Macedonia. It was brutally suppressed by the Ottomans. Macedonia's Republic Day commemorates the anniversary of the uprising on August 2. Greeks are not optimistic Tsipras failed to secure support from his coalition ally and opposition parties on Saturday, and the Greek people are also less than enthused. "I get the impression that it's just another suggestion that's being voiced only to be tossed aside in favor of another name," the journalist Georgios Toulas told DW. Besides, he said, only Greeks who were actually interested in finding a solution would accept Macedonia appearing anywhere in their northern neighbor's name. One such Greek is 25-year-old student Nikos Sykas. Unlike the majority of his compatriots he has no problem with "Macedonia" remaining a part of the former Yugoslav republic's name. But he doesn't think "Republic of Ilinden Macedonia" is the right solution, either. "That will let in nationalism through the back door," he argues. "And it's precisely this that will inevitably cause new tensions on the Greek side." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2s7Q3 Greece accuses Macedonia of using Greek history to create a questionable national identity. Every nationalist attempt by Macedonia is perceived as an affront. But it's not only Greeks who could view the supposed breakthrough with skepticism. The 1903 Ilinden Uprising is also commemorated in neighboring Bulgaria. Bulgarians consider it to have sown the seeds of their independence. Sofia will reject the idea of Macedonia using it to end the name dispute with Greece. Athens is not the only one to accuse Skopje of cultural theft; Bulgaria too doubts the existence of a specifically Macedonian culture and history. What does 'Ilindenska' represent? When the Ilinden Uprising broke out, modern-day Bulgaria and Macedonia as well as the provinces of Macedonia and Thrace in northern Greece were all still part of the Ottoman Empire. The rebellion was organized by parts of the Slavic population in Thessaloniki, namely Bulgarians, Slavic Macedonians and Albanians who banded together in a "Secret Macedonian-Adrianople Revolutionary Organization." They would ultimately fail. Real chance of reaching an agreement? Despite historical reservations, both Skopje and Athens are celebrating the move as a significant step towards a final resolution of the dispute. However, the Greek government says the Macedonian Constitution must make clear the country does not consider the province part of its territory. So far Zaev has vehemently rejected the idea of changing the constitution. There would also have to be a referendum. And although many Macedonians would like to see a swift resolution of the conflict with Greece, it's unclear whether they would, if required, approve a more extensive name change. Read more: EU backs opening accession talks with Albania, Macedonia Tsipras too will struggle to persuade ideological hardliners in Greece to swallow the new name. Next year is election year, and there's a lot at stake for the incumbent prime minister. His rival, the conservative Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has a clear lead in the polls. Support for Tsipras has fallen drastically after he surprisingly broke his election promise and supported the austerity policy laid out by EU donor countries. So right now he is trying to score some successes. A rapprochement with the Balkan countries, which have all too often been neglected by Greece, is part of this strategy.