Lose excess weight Being overweight can become very dangerous. If you weigh too much, your risk for diabetes is much higher than for people with healthier body masses. People who spend most of their day on the sofa eating chips, drinking sweetened beverages and hardly moving should hear the alarm bells. With such a lifestyle, developing type 2 diabetes, or "diabetes mellitus," becomes more or less inevitable. Everyone can be affected, and everyone can prevent it. Exercise, exercise, exercise Always move. This doesn't mean you have to train for the next marathon. Thirty to 60 minutes of daily exercise are already helpful. You can easily include a great deal of it in your everyday life – and you won't even suffer from aching muscles. For instance, instead of driving your car to work, take your bike or walk if possible. It's a start. And, practiced far too rarely, take the stairs instead of the elevator. A small effort to great effect! And once you've started, you might even enjoy it ;) Breaking a sweat is not everybody's piece of cake, but taking your bike to work or going for long walks in the park can work wonders too Eat healthily We all know they're tempting, but stay away from chips, chocolate, cakes, fries and pizza! These "calorie bombs" give meaning to the phrase "a minute on the lips, a lifetime on the hips." And they can subsequently cause diabetes. You should also stay away from fatty pork chops, sausages and schnitzel, as well as other foods with a high amount of fat. The thought might be a horrible one for passionate meat eaters, but it's definitely better than developing diabetes. So - what are the alternatives? Instead of chocolate, you can have an apple or pear – or you might even dare to eat a carrot or kohlrabi. Can't deal with that? It merely takes some getting used to. Promise. Eating healthily is not always fun, but learning early is a good start. It just takes some getting used to ;) Use healthy ingredients when you cook The golden rule: Use as little fat as possible. Instead of frying meat, fish or vegetables, try steaming them. The less fat you use, the better. And if you can't manage without it, use unsaturated fatty acids, such as olive or rapeseed oil. Do not, however, use clarified butter, coconut or palm oil. Stay away from lemonade, cola and co So-called soft drinks are the worst: Up to 36 sugar cubes in one bottle – a real "calorie bomb." Once in your body, they are directly metabolized into fat. And these drinks don't even contain the slightest bit of important nutrients. In fact, it's quite the opposite: The high sugar content is not only bad for your figure, but also damages your teeth. You should consume soft drinks as little as possible, or keep away from them completely. Poison candy: Are chocolates, sweets and sugary snacks ever healthy? Drink very little or no alcohol A beer a day keeps the doctor away? In your dreams! Drinking alcohol makes you fat. A half liter of beer contains 200 calories; a half liter of wine contains about 300. Maybe try a trendy drink instead? Like a smoothie. Alcohol has a detrimental effect on your weight, and being overweight is extremely bad for your blood sugar leves, which in turn increases your risk of diabetes. Coffee? Yes, please! But this filter can process up to 70 liters of coffee. Might be a bit much after all. Enjoy your coffee Caffeine junkies, rejoice! You can drink coffee without regret. Scientists have discovered that coffee contains different plant substances that may influence your sugar metabolism. Drinking a lot of coffee basically lowers your risk for diabetes. The experts' advice: Drink at least six cups daily. So, off you go to the coffee machine or coffee maker - unless, of course, it makes you jittery ;) Treat yourself to breaks A short walk during your lunch break is not only good for your soul, but also for your body. You can lower your stress levels and reduce your risk of developing diabetes at the same time. Any other type of movement also burns calories, which is ideal to prevent obesity. Taking breaks and getting enough sleep is important - no matter where Sleep well Sleeping properly is the best medicine, and it works even better if you exercise regularly. During sleep, your body regenerates and burns calories, so it breaks down fat. Peace and quiet can not only help to prevent diabetes, but also lower the risk for many other diseases. Who knows, you might even dream of something you have sensibly renounced - of a pork roast and fries with a pint of beer, for example. Of a large burger. Of a slice of buttercream cake. Dreaming of it is definitely allowed. Sugar is converted to fat in the body about two to five times more quickly than starches. In other words, when we consume sugar, we’re feeding our fat cells. The fructose in sugar is also metabolized by the liver, which can contribute to fatty liver disease. That can promote insulin resistance and lead to Type 2 diabetes – with a lifelong impact on your health. In small amounts, sugar promotes the release of serotonin, a hormone that boosts mood. But too much sugar can promote depression and anxiety. Sudden shifts in blood sugar levels can also lead to irritability, anxiety and mood swings. We already know that sugar has a variety of health effects, but it also affects the skin. That’s in part due to glycation, the process whereby sugar molecules bind to collagen fibers. As a result, the collagen fibers lose their natural elasticity. Excess sugar also damages microcirculation, which slows cell turnover. That can promote the development of wrinkles, make you look older than your age. The microflora of your gut promote digestion and protect your digestive system from harmful bacteria. Consuming too much sugar gets your gut microflora out of whack. Fungi and parasites love sugar. An excess of the Candida albicans yeast can lead to a host of annoying health symptoms. And sugar also contributes to constipation, diarrhea and gas. In overweight people, the brain responds to sugar by releasing dopamine, in much the same way that it responds to alcohol or other addictive substances. Test it yourself: avoid all sugary foods and beverages for ten days. If you start to get headachy and irritable after a day or two, and start craving sugar, then you could be suffering from sugar withdrawal. People who consume excess sugar are more likely to engage in aggressive behavior. Children with ADHD are also affected by sugar. For these children, too much sugar affects concentration and promotes hyperactivity. That’s why it’s a good idea for children to avoid eating sugar during school hours. Excessive sugar consumption makes it harder for the immune system to ward off disease. After consuming sugar, the immune system’s ability to kill germs is reduced by up to 40 percent. Sugar also saps the body’s store of vitamin C, which white blood cells need to fight off viruses and bacteria. Sugar also promotes the inflammatory response, and even minor inflammation can trigger numerous diseases. Studies have shown that excess sugar consumption increases the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease. A 2013 study showed that insulin resistance and high blood sugar values – both of which are common in diabetes – are associated with a higher risk of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Cancer cells need sugar to proliferate. An international research team headed by Lewis Cantley of Harvard Medical School is researching how sugar might contribute to the growth of malignant cells. He believes that refined sugar may be what causes cancer cells to develop into tumors. He’s still testing that hypothesis but recommends that even slender people consume as little sugar as possible. Excess sugar consumption may have a negative impact on memory. According to a study carried out by Berlin’s Charité University Hospital, people with high blood sugar levels have a smaller hippocampus – the part of the brain that’s key to long term memory. In the study, people with high blood sugar also performed more poorly on tests of memory than those with low blood sugar levels.