At 19:37 local time on Monday, May 7, Putri Bunk, a 36-year-old PhD student from Berlin, Germany, spent a four-hour transit in London's Heathrow Airport for her connecting flight to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. In all, her journey would last 18 hours. Putri was carrying with her two marked and sealed postal ballots of fellow Malaysians living in Germany, which she would pass to recipients waiting for her at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA). They, in turn, would rush the ballots to the relevant voting districts to be handed over to the returning officers. All of this would have to be accomplished by 5 pm, May 9, when polling in Malaysia's 14th general election officially closes. Read more: Politicians, party or policies: how will Malaysians pick? Malaysia's new law against 'fake news' snares second opposition leader ahead of elections Putri is one of many Malaysians abroad who are racing against time and the implausible deadline set by the Malaysian Election Commission (EC) for postal voters. Ironically, her own ballot hadn't arrived in the mail yet by the time she flew home. "I had already booked a flight home to bring back my vote and make sure it won't be messed with… now I have a case against the Malaysian government and the EC for their lack of effort in giving us overseas voters a chance to vote. We need at least two weeks to ensure our ballots arrive safely in Malaysia," Putri told DW, adding that she then decided to become a "runner" for other Malaysians who can't afford the €90 ($107) that courier agencies in Germany were charging for express delivery. Wednesday's election pits PM Najib Razak against his former political mentor, Mahathir Mohamad Voting from afar In 2013, Malaysians living abroad (except in Singapore, southern Thailand, Borneo and Brunei), were finally allowed the postal vote, following the recommendations of the 2012 parliamentary select committee on electoral reform. In the 2013 elections, the country's foreign ministry oversaw the delivery and return of postal votes, with overseas Malaysians being able to submit their votes at embassies and high commissions abroad. This year, however, the EC announced that voters would be sent their ballots via Pos Malaysia's courier service, which they must return themselves by the stipulated deadline. But postal ballot papers can only be printed after nomination day, when the candidates for each constituency are named. That has left only 6.5 working days between nomination day on Saturday, April 28, and polling day on Wednesday, May 9 — discounting Sundays, Labor Day and May 9 itself, which was declared as an additional public holiday for the general election. "This leaves only 4.5 working days for ballots to be sent out and returned by courier. Many Malaysian voters abroad may therefore only receive their ballots after polling day on May 9, certainly too late for them to be returned in time to be counted. By setting a short campaign period of only 11 days, the EC has effectively sabotaged its own overseas postal voting system," Nirmala Devi Windgaetter, secretary of Global Bersih, told DW. Global Bersih is the international network and advocacy arm of Bersih 2.0, a coalition of Malaysian NGOs demanding free and fair elections. Pos Malaysia's international Express Mail Service delivery period ranges between 2 and 7 working days for Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, France, Ireland, the Netherlands and Italy — just some of the countries housing the Malaysian diaspora. The EC chief, Mohd Hashim Abdullah, though, saw no issues with the time period. "I am confident that postal votes, including the overseas ballots, will return in time. We still have time so there is no need to worry," he reportedly said on May 6. Yet, as feared, many Malaysians abroad have only been receiving their ballots during the tail end of the campaign period, minimizing their chances of posting their votes back in time. Others like Putri have not even received their ballots, leaving them unable to vote. Hence, the race to return the ballots to Malaysia by hand, which the EC has said is admissible in an official email to Global Bersih. A medical doctor by training, Mahathir led Malaysia from 1981 to 2003 and is dubbed the country's "Father of Modernization." A shrewd politician, he won five consecutive general elections, while deflecting challenges to his leadership of the United Malays National Organization (UMNO), a core component party of the ruling coalition, the Barisan Nasional. The Malaysian elections must be held by August this year, with analysts predicting they will happen by June. It promises an unprecedented spectacle as it will pit incumbent Najib Razak against Mahathir, his former mentor who had favored and helped install him as PM in 2009. Mahathir quit UMNO in 2016 following the 1MDB scandal saying it had become "Najib's party." Called a "dictator" by critics for his hard stance on dissidents and the press, and for curbing the power of the judiciary while he was PM, he attended a Bersih ("Clean") rally in 2016 organized by several NGOs seeking reforms of the current electoral system to ensure free, clean and fair elections. Critics also blame him for consolidating power in the hands of the executive during his tenure. Mahathir set up a new party in 2016, which then joined forces with Pakatan Harapan, a loose coaliton of oppostion parties. Ironically, he had locked away some members of these parties before, most significantly, his former deputy, Anwar Ibrahim. The coalition has stated that if they win the 2018 elections, Mahathir would be PM and Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail (pictured here), his deputy. Anwar (L), once Mahathir's heir apparent-turned-archrival, was sacked from his post as deputy PM, and later charged and found guilty of graft and sodomy. Yet, in their shared zeal to unseat Najib, they've now struck a deal, with Mahathir offering to secure a royal pardon for Anwar (currently serving a second sentence for sodomy under Najib's administration), easing the way for Anwar to become PM. Not all Malaysians are on board with this pact though. Some civil society members and opposition lawmakers blame Mahathir for engineering the very system he now opposes. This disquiet has spurred a new movement. #UndiRosak (or #SpoiltVote) that urges voters to either boycott the polls or cast spoilt ballots. But others argue that this will merely split opposition votes and empower BN further. Current PM Najib Razak's administration has been mired in scandals, most notably involving the state fund 1MDB, which is being probed for money laundering in several countries. However, a survey in December predicted that he is likely to remain in power given a fractious opposition and his government's efforts to redraw electoral boundaries that critics allege highly favor a BN win. The Barisan Nasional, which has singularly governed Malaysia since independence in 1957, lost its two-thirds parliamentary majority after the 2013 elections. It also then lost the popular vote for the first time in its history to Pakatan Harapan. Meanwhile, the nonagenarian has taken to social media, in a bid to court the country's younger electorate. But a poll conducted in August 2017 found that "seven out of 10 voters below the age of 30 in Peninsular Malaysia do not care about politics; two-thirds believe that politicians were not just untrustworthy, but also the 'main problem in Malaysia.'" Author: Brenda Haas Powered by hashtags From the time the highly-criticized mid-week polling day was announced, Malaysians have created hashtags and initiated online movements at home and abroad to ensure maximum voter turnout. Rabu (the Malay word for Wednesday) was transformed into a cheeky acronym: "Rakyat Akan Buang UMNO" or "the people will vote UMNO out." UMNO is the party that incumbent Prime Minister Najib Razak heads. #UndiRabu (Vote on Wednesday), #PulangMengundi (Return to Vote) and #CarpoolGE14 went viral on Twitter, with Malaysians offering to fund or subsidize travel costs for less well-off countrymen. Some have organized carpool rides back to close lying voting constituencies, while others highlighted cheap flights, bus or even ferry tickets. Now, there's #BawaBalikUndi ("Bring Back The Vote") — a movement to organize runners in various countries to collect marked and sealed postal ballots to be flown back to Malaysia. "We're working with #UndiRabu and #Pulang Mengundi. We have runners in Hong Kong, Melbourne, London, everywhere. All of them have to be in KLIA by 8 pm on May 8, where runners of the other two movements will meet them to then rush the ballots to the voting centers by May 9," Nirmala explained to DW. These runners are volunteers whose flight tickets to home were purchased using donations from fellow Malaysians, ranging anywhere between €50 and €300 per donor. Others who had already planned to return to vote in person, also volunteered. "I had offered to bring back ballots for other Malaysians but when I left Berlin at 10pm on Sunday, May 5, no one had received their ballots yet. I'm merely trying to help however I can. This battle is a tough one, but we are not going to give up till the last second," Regina Ho, who moved to Berlin last year, told DW. Nirmala underscored that everyone involved in the #BringBackTheVote movement isn't concerned with each other's political leanings. "It doesn't matter who you're voting for — all we want is to exercise our right to vote. All we ask is for free and fair elections," she said, adding that the EC has ignored Global Bersih's repeated appeals to allocate at least 28 days for the postal vote. Read more: Artist Fahmi Reza: 'Malaysian politics is a circus full of clowns' Malaysia elections - undecided? spoil your vote A race to the end Meanwhile, a tweet by caretaker deputy Home Minister Nur Jazlan Mohamed raised hackles. "The number of Malaysians voting overseas is less than 0.1 percent of the population. It won't change any result. Don't get excited [over] it," he wrote on Sunday night. While the EC itself has been vague about the exact number of registered voters abroad, Malaysians contend that the government apparatus should be expediting the postal vote instead of dismissing it as negligible. Undeterred, Malaysians who have received their ballots on May 7 and 8 are now taking a chance and rushing to the nearest airports to spot fellow Malaysians at departure halls who might be willing to carry their ballots home for them. Kristina Mariswamy, living in Houston, Texas, shared on Instagram how she held up a signboard at the Houston airport in the hope of someone on the late night flight to Kuala Lumpur to carry her ballot for her. A Malaysian pilot spotted her sign just before the final check-in and offered his help. Shanta Selaikanu Renken did the same at the Munich airport: her ballot is now being carried home by a Malaysian who had shortened her European holiday to return home to vote. Nirmala hopes that all these actions by their countrymen abroad will spur full voter turnout among Malaysians at home on Wednesday, May 9. "It doesn't matter who you vote, but you must exercise your basic right as a Malaysian citizen. Take control of your ballot."