Italy's President Sergio Mattarella on Wednesday gave little-known legal scholar Giuseppe Conte a mandate to form the next cabinet. With the combined support of Conte's populist 5-star movement and their allies from the far-right League party in Italy's parliament, Conte is likely to win the post of prime minister next week. Accepting the nomination, Conte said he was "aware of the need to confirm Italy's European and international standing." A euroskeptic 5-Star government could present Brussels with its greatest challenge since Brexit. "I'm preparing myself now to defend the interests of all Italians in all places, in Europe and internationally," he told reporters. "I will be the defense lawyer of the Italian people." Conte has to draft a list of Cabinet ministers for presidential approval before they can take office, perhaps by the end of next week. Conte added he was committed to working with European and international allies. The 53-year-old lawyer has never held public office. Read more: Who is Italy's candidate for prime minister, Giuseppe Conte? Giuseppe Conte is a little-known law professor at Florence University, viewed as a League and 5 Star Movement (M5S) technocratic compromise candidate for prime minister. Conte is not a lawmaker and has no political experience. He will have to manage a potentially unwieldy alliance between League and M5S, two parties that have not ruled at the national level. Conte is an expert on civil and commercial law. 5-Star Movement leader Luigi Di Maio (L) tapped him before the election for minister of the newly created public administration and simplification portfolio. Conte has worked as a lawyer and academic, with "refinement of legal studies" at Yale, New York University and Sorbonne, among other universities, according to his CV. The M5S leader secured his party 32 percent of the vote in March elections. He is tapped to become labor and welfare minister, or economic minister. Either position would empower M5S to pursue an anti-austerity program that could bring it up against the EU. Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in March elections. A former member of the European Parliament, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini looks set to take over the Interior Ministry, which handles policing and immigration issues. The M5S and League alliance could be difficult to hold as they seek to implement a controversial agenda. The two parties have only a marginal majority in parliament. Italian governments are notoriously fragile and unstable. Their government would be the 58th since World War II. Silvio Berlusconi (R) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electorial alliance including League in the March elections that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinising opposition." President Sergio Mattarella must agree to the parties' prime minister nomination, who must then be approved by parliament. A former constitutional court judge, Mattarella is able to veto any legislation from the next government that is unconstitutional. Author: Chase Winter Changes in Italy spark concern Some European officials have already sounded the alarm over a government led by Conte and supported by the laboriously negotiated alliance between the 5-Star movement and the League. The coalition has called for Italy to change its relations with the EU and announced plans to increase government spending in the country burdened by debt. On Sunday, France urged Italy to respect its financial commitments to the EU. "Everyone in Italy must understand that Italy's future is in Europe and nowhere else, and if this future is to be in Europe, there are rules that must be respected," French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire said. Conte himself also faced accusations that he had padded his resume, listing reputable international universities, such as in New York, where he never studied or held a teaching post. He is expected to present his outline for the new government ahead of the parliamentary vote. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y57E Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dj/jm (AP, AFP, dpa)