It would be highest number of visitors the occasion has garnered in decades. The annual Katholikentag celebration, known as the German Catholic Convention in English, which turns 101 on Wednesday, is expecting over 50,000 participants. Not only is this the biggest showing in 30 years, there are also several high profile names on the guest list, including Chancellor Angela Merkel and members of her cabinet. Despite these record-breaking numbers, a divisive debate has been circling around the festival's 1,000 individual events for weeks. The Central Committee of German Catholics (ZdK) has as one of its members Volker Münz, an MP in the national parliament from the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD), who has been invited to speak at an event concerning the relationship between church and state. Although a representative from each party in parliament is expected to speak, the participation of an AfD nationalist has sowed the seeds of controversy. In 2016, the ZdK was criticized for intentionally neglecting to invite any of the right-wing populists to that year's celebration in Leipzig. Yet their inclusion this year seems to have prompted criticism as well, particularly from church youth organizations. While protesters follow the AfD wherever they go, in no city has this perhaps been more apparent than in the university city of Münster. It was here in February 2017 where some 8,000 took to the streets to peacefully demonstrate against the party's New Years' meeting at the city's historic town hall. Protestors rally against the AfD in Münster's medieval city center in 2017 Playing the victim "The members of every party responsible for religious policy" were invited, ZdK President Thomas Sternberg told public broadcaster WDR. He said that included "unfortunately, by God," the AfD. "If we had refused to extend an invitation to one of the parties in the Bundestag, then the AfD would have stylized themselves victims, and then there would have been an uproar of no small proportions." ZdK President Thomas Sternberg Publicist Andreas Püttmann, who has long dealt with the relationship between the Church and the AfD, agrees. He says that the Church should indeed stand up for victims, for people being persecuted, but he disputes whether the AfD belongs in that category. "The Church is no talk show and shouldn't function as part of a political debate about integration," said Püttmann, autor of the book "How Catholic is Germany," referring to the AfD's anti-immigration stance. "If taboo breakers like this are allowed on Catholic podiums, this could contribute to the fracturing of the Christian ethos. In this case it would have been better for the Church to clearly draw a line against this." "Seek Peace" is the motto of this Christian gathering; a reference to the 30 Years' War, which began exactly 400 years ago. The bloody religious conflict killed millions of people across Europe and only ended when the Peace of Westphalia agreement was signed — in Münster — in 1648. The current state of the world and the decisive course of Pope Francis gives this historical slogan a link to the present. On that count, one of this year's participants is Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, who was given the Nobel Peace Prize after his administration negotiated the end of a decades-long civil conflict in his country. Indeed, this year's festival has quite a high concentration of politicians: German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Chancellor Merkel, nine cabinet members, the heads of government from three German states, and several party leaders. Always one of the best-dressed at the Met Gala, Rihanna took the Catholicism theme seriously. Wearing a Maison Margiela by John Galliano minidress and ornate robe, Rihanna topped off her look with a miter inspired by those worn by popes since the medieval era. Pope Paul VI is the last to have worn the papal tiara — a bejeweled, three-­tiered gold and silver number worth at least $15,000 — in 1963. "Religion and spirituality has informed my work for my entire career, and fashion also, and combining the two is the perfect marriage," said the pop star whose name was taken from the holy mother. Shrouded in a black netfish veil, Madonna appeared in an all-black Jean Paul Gaultier piece topped off with a crown of crosses. Along with US Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour, co-chairs for the 2018 event included Rihanna, Amal Clooney and Donatella Versace. Wintour, seen here in the middle, arrived in a beaded off-white Chanel gown and a cross necklace alongside her daughter, Bee Shaffer. The evening is considered the Oscars of the East Coast for its focus on the red carpet and what everyone is wearing. Inside the exhibition, that interest on clothing is just as great, though for other reasons. "Heavenly Bodies" includes couture garments from designers alongside the relics from the Catholic church which inspired them. Among those gowns on display are a few from co-chair Versace. While the theme of the Met Gala is established to coincide with the exhibition being previewed, invitees are able to interpret them in any way they like. The chance to dress a celebrity for the red carpet is a career-making opportunity. Here, we see Jeremy Scott's take on imaginary Catholic fashion, in the form of a pearl-drenched gown worn by heavily pregnant rap star Cardi B. Perhaps the most understatedly adorned among the invited guests was the New York Cardinal Timothy Dolan, who was asked to speak about the significance of the items on loan from the Vatican. Among the never-seen-outside-the-Vatican relics are 40 accessories or papal vestments tracing 15 papacies. It's not all about the art at the Met Gala — there's entertainment, too. In 2017, the event saw singer Katy Perry take to the stage. This year, she grabbed attention on the red carpet with her angelic interpretation of the theme. With her six-foot wings spread, however, the pop star had to turn sideways to make it through the door. There was no need for a cross in every building in New York — the A-list came adorned with the cross aplenty. Jennifer Lopez picked a vibrant Balmian number with a thigh-high slit and feathered train that accentuated the sequined cross cut-out on her chest. An invite-only event, the Met Gala is a fundraiser for the museum's Costume Institute; in 2017, the one-night-only affair drew in $12 million for the Met despite being limited to just 550 guests. Those guests, however, are hand-picked by host Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief of US Vogue. This year they included Paris Jackson, Stella McCartney and Miley Cyrus. Author: Courtney Tenz After an attack The question of conflict and violence took on a tragic dimension in Münster last month, one that will surely leave a mark on this year's German Catholic Convention. On April 7, a reportedly mentally ill man drove a vehicle into a street cafe, killing three and injuring many others before shooting himself — sending panic across Germany about a possible terror attack. As a result, organizers of the event have worked hard on increased security. Many streets in downtown Münster will remain completely closed until Sunday. An especially interesting part of the celebration will no doubt be a discussion of anti-Semitism, a last-minute addition to the program. There is also another conflict among German bishops that has been heating up in recent weeks — whether or not Protestant spouses of Catholics should be allowed to take communion. As if the Church has no other problems.