"With a heavy heart, I announce that Jürgen Marcus has lost the fight against the chronic lung disease and died in mid-May in our apartment in Munich," said the singer's manager and partner Nikolaus Fischer on Tuesday. Marcus has suffered from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) since 2002, and his poor health forced him to end his career ahead of schedule in 2017. The singer had already withdrawn from public life five years earlier because of the disease. He was only a week away from his 70th birthday when he passed away. Schlager heartthrob Jürgen Marcus was known for his blonde mane, casual hip swing and beaming smile. Since its release in 1972, "A New Love is Like a New Life" has become one of the best-known songs in Schlager history, and is rarely missing at any German party. "Music is wonderful because you can capture people's emotions," he said in an interview, stressing that he was not sorry to continue performing his most famous hit at concerts. "I am grateful that I have these songs. When I perform, people are already waiting for it, and that's something special. " Marcus was born on June 6, 1948 in northwestern Germany, a trained machinist and aspiring performer whose expressive voice started to gain him attention. His springboard to the big stage came in the late 1960s when he landed the main role of Claude in the hippie cult musical, Hair. Star producer Jack White — who also discovered David Hasselhoff as a singer and produced Laura Branigan's 1982 hit "Gloria"  — signed the young performer before the breakthrough came with "A New Love is Like a New Life," which went to number two on the German charts. The singer followed hot on the tails of folksy Schlager pioneers like Heino — who has sold more than 50 million albums since his 1967 solo debut and remains one of the most recognizable celebrities in Germany — and predates current Schlager princess Helene Fischer. Other hits followed, including "Ein Festival der Liebe" (A Festival of Love), and by 1982 the singer had recorded the largest number of number ones on the German hit parade. Schlager singer Heino was also a regular on German TV when In decline but never forgotten In 1976, Marcus went to the Eurovision Song Contest as the entry for Luxembourg but placed 14th for the song "Chansons pour ceux qui s'aiment." Though in the 1980s he continued to work with different producers, and musicals maestro Andrew Lloyd Webber, his star was on the wane. But Marcus' legend as a pioneer from the golden age of Schlager will continue to grow as his hits remain on high rotation on golden oldies radio, and garner millions of hits on YouTube. Jürgen Marcus, who came out as a homosexual in the early 1990s, was with his partner Nikolaus Fischer for more than 20 years, the couple living together until the Schlager star's death in mid-May. sb (with dpa) Helene Fischer already has double platinum in the bag. Pre-orders for her self-titled album have been streaming in for months. Does it contain a hit as big as "Atemlos durch die Nacht" ("Breathless Through the Night") from 2013? We'll have to wait and see. Fischer, who was born in 1984 in Siberia and grew up in Rhineland-Palatinate, is the biggest star on the German music scene. Fischer has sold more than 10 million records in Germany alone. "Farbenspiel," with "Atemlos durch die Nacht," was the first album to reach number one on the German charts twice - in 2013 and 2014. It was downloaded 250,000 times, setting a record for German artists. Riding the wave of the "Atemlos" hype in 2013, it seemed like the country was full of Fischer fans of all ages and backgrounds. Even the national German football team (in particular, Bastian Schweinsteiger, second from left) was among them. The pop diva performed after the team won the World Cup in 2014 - and the players sang right along with her. Fischer trained as a musical theater artist, and her live performances are diverse and entertaining. Her mix of "schlager" (folk pop), rock and classical music appeals to many. More than 1 million people came out for her last tour. The singer has a full schedule this fall, with 83 concerts in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. In many cases, she'll be giving five back-to-back shows in each city. Fischer's upcoming tour has been called "spectacular" and "bombastic" - even before her fans have seen it. The reason is that the singer has added the troupe 45 Degrees to the program - a branch of the acrobatic theater group Cirque du Soleil. Acrobatics have often been part of her shows, as can be seen from this 2013 performance. Boyfriend Florian Silbereisen (left) will have to do without his Helene for a while this fall. Silbereisen helped launch the singer to fame: she made her first TV appearance in 2005 on his folk music show. Since then, Fischer has appeared countless times on camera and even has her own program. "The Helene Fischer Show" has been broadcast on Christmas Day every year since 2011. Sixteen Echo Awards and two Bambis are among the countless accolades the singer has collected over the course of her career. But prizes aside, stars know they've really made it when they get their own wax figure at Madame Tussauds. Fischer's statue has been in Berlin since 2011 and its outfit and hairstyle are regularly updated. Author: Katharina Abel (kbm)