US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo issued a list of 12 demands on Monday that he said should be included in any new nuclear deal with Iran. He threatened "the strongest sanctions in history" if Tehran refuses to change course. Following President Donald Trump's Iran's Bushehr nuclear facility was one of five known to international observers. Israel, the United States and allied nations had agreed that Iran's enriching of uranium — for domestic energy purposes, according to officials in Tehran — could pose a threat to the region should it result in the development of nuclear weapons. In 2006, the United States, China and Russia joined France, Germany and Britain in their existing talks with Iran to begin a grueling negotiation process that finally arrived at a deal on July 14, 2015. The agreement that the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and Germany (P5+1) reached with Iran foresaw sanctions relief in exchange for monitoring of Iran's enriching of uranium. In Tehran and other cities across Iran, people celebrated what they believed would be an end to years of economic isolation that had had serious effects on public health and nutrition by reducing access to medical supplies and food for ordinary people. Many also saw the agreement as proof that the self-avowed reformist president, Hassan Rouhani, sought to open Iran up to the world in other ways. The International Atomic Energy Agency was tasked with monitoring Iran's compliance with the deal. IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano (left) traveled to Tehran to meet with Rouhani in December 2016, nearly a year and a half after the deal was signed. In reports delivered quarterly, the IAEA repeatedly certified Iran's compliance. After eight years with Barack Obama, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu found the US president he wanted in Donald Trump, who, with no experience in diplomacy or nuclear science, had made calling the international accord "the worst deal ever negotiated" a staple of his 2016 election campaign. Despite the IAEA's certifications and protests from within his own State Department, Trump withdrew the US from the agreement on May 8. The remaining parties have vowed to move forward. The European Union's top diplomat, Federica Mogherini (left), held talks earlier this week with (left to right) the foreign ministers of Iran, France, Germany and Britain. , Pompeo said a new framework must ensure that "Iran has no possible path to a nuclear weapon, ever." Pompeo's key demands: What the US would offer in return: Pompeo promised that under this new agreement, the US would make major concessions. This includes a full restoration of diplomatic and commercial ties. The secretary of state also promised support for the modernization of Iran's economy. What happens next: Iran is unlikely to accept any of these conditions. US allies that agreed to the original pact – the UK, France, and Germany – have been working to find a way to keep that deal in effect, particularly as the US withdrawal and new raft of sanctions will hurt a number of European firms with connections to Iran. Washington has threatened to hold anyone doing prohibited business in Iran to account. es/rc (AP, Reuters)