Police stationed at a Bavarian airport fined several parents for taking their children on holiday before the official start of school holidays, local media reported on Sunday.  School truancy is treated seriously in Germany and parents can be held liable if children do not attend school from age six to 16.  Read more: Bavaria passes controversial law expanding police powers The most important part of every German child's first day of school is the "Schultüte," or school cone. Apparently the thought of attending school every day for the next 12-13 years has to be "sweetened" with candy and presents - a tradition that dates back to the early 19th century. Parents fill the cones, either homemade or purchased, with treats, school supplies and small gifts. Most children in Germany are six years old when they start school in August or September, depending on which state they live in. The majority of them have already spent a few years in daycare or pre-school, which is not part of the public school and is less pedagogical in nature. For kids in Germany - and often their parents too -, first grade is a big adjustment. Ahead of the first day of school, parents buy their new first-grader a backpack, known as a "Schulranzen." They're often made with a square frame to make sure papers don't get bent and snacks don't get squished. Later, their jeans brand will be important, but for first-graders, it's crucial to have the trendiest design on their backpack. Star Wars and Superman never go out of style. After they get their square backpack, it will need to be filled with pens, pencils, rulers and folders ahead of the first day. In Germany, particularly younger children often don't have lunch at school. Instead, they have a mid-morning snack time and go home or to daycare for a late lunch. To transport their "Pausenbrot," or "break bread," they'll need an appropriate box. Many kids around the world pose for a first day of school photo. In Germany, they hold up their unopened "Schultüte" - which is often larger than they are - along with a sign reading something like "My first day of school." For many children, it's not the highlight of their big day. The first day of school in Germany doesn't start with school - but with a special ceremony. Parents, relatives and godparents are invited to join in. An ecumenical church service is usually included in the tradition, giving the young pupils a special blessing as they mark a right of passage and embark on their educational journey. Some schools offer an interreligious ceremony for Muslim pupils. During the ceremony, older children or teachers often give a small performance and explain to the newcomers how school works. In some schools, first-graders are assigned a buddy from third or fourth grade to show them the ropes. A tour of the school is included in the introductory festivities and first-graders are shown their new classrooms, which are labeled "1A," "1B," "1C," etc. depending on the size of the school. This chalkboard reads, "Welcome, class 1A." After the ceremony at school, families organize their own celebrations. Grandparents, relatives, godparents and friends are invited for a meal or cake to see the youngster of honor off into the brave new world of education. The first-graders themselves probably get annoyed at all the head patting and cheek squeezing - but they usually get a few presents to make up for it. After the ceremony is over, the cake has been eaten and the cone of goodies unpacked, the first day of school draws to a close. The next day, the first-graders have to find their new classrooms for their first lesson. Elementary school in Germany includes grades one to four. After that, pupils move on to one of three different levels of secondary schools, depending on their academic performance. Author: Kate Müser The airport crackdown Read more: Germany's CSU and CDU want 'values' taught to refugee children in schools – report School can insist on students' return "We have known about this phenomenon for a long time, and this is one of our tasks," a police spokesman told Der Spiegel. "If the teacher then says that they insist on the presence of the children, we have to bring them back." However, in these cases, the spokesman said the parents would likely just have to save a bit on their holiday to pay for the fine. Bavarian police asked parents "not to take their children out of school before their holidays without school exemption." Parents must apply to the school for exemption and a decision is made by the headmaster. Read more: German parents may face trial after refusing mosque field trip (2016) Holiday prices: Despite strict laws against truancy, many parents try to avoid crowds and inflated flight prices by taking their children out of school a few days before the official start of vacation. Pentecost holidays: Most western German states grant students a long weekend for the Pentecost weekend (May 19 to May 21), but Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg grant a full two weeks. German school system: School education is free in Germany, with a basic education generally consisting of 10 years of schooling. Students may apply for university or career training after successfully finishing at least 12 years of schooling. Particular to Germany is a system that places students with a company for on-the-job training in addition to studies to prepare for a career. Homeschooling is illegal. Read more: German court sends teen to jail for skipping school (2012) DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.