"I don't believe in letters that don't arrive," Marcel Proust wrote to his friend Lucien Daudet in 1916. Such missives were penned at a furious pace: Experts estimate that the French author wrote about 90,000 letters throughout his life, of which only a fraction are known to the public. Sotheby's auction house in Paris is selling a number of the author's letters, notes and manuscripts on Thursday. The original documents give insight into the life of a great intellectual who kept writing, despite years of illness. His monumental work In his famous seven-volume novel, In Search of Lost Time, Proust declares that true life is literature. Originally published in French as À la recherche du temps perdu, the masterwork was published from 1913 to 1927, with the last three volumes released posthumously. The strongly autobiographical novel follows the narrator's recollections of childhood and becoming an adult. While Proust is best-known for his literary epic, his oeuvre includes other books and thousands of letters that he began writing at the age of 17. An original copy of the first volume of his 3,200-page work signed by Proust was auctioned in 2016 Gaining access to the Parisian salons Valentin Louis Georges Eugène Marcel Proust was born into a wealthy family, with his father Adrien Proust a professor of medicine and a doctor and his Jewish mother Jeanne hailing from a family of successful financiers. In his early 20s, Proust became increasingly acquainted with the Parisian nobility and frequented the salons of the city. His wit made him popular among Parisian high society, but Proust felt ambivalent about these elitist circles. While fascinated by their upscale lifestyle, he too wrote satirically about high society customs for the French daily, Le Figaro. Self-marketing genius After finishing his law studies at the Sorbonne in Paris in 1893, Proust volunteered for a time as a librarian in the Bibliothèque Mazarine, France's oldest public library. But it's said that the job was largely an alibi for Proust's own literary work. The wealthy young writer hardly had to worry about money. He could even afford to pay the equivalent of several thousand euros for positive reviews of his books. As experts have meanwhile revealed, Proust even wrote reviews himself for the first volume of In Search of Lost Time, describing for example his own writing style as "almost too luminous for the eye." In 1919 he received France's top literary prize, the Prix Goncourt, for the second part of his epic. He is still considered one of the most important early modernist writers. Lovers turned friends Proust's first great love was the composer Reynaldo Hahn, who also set his poems "Portraits of Painters" to music. While they were together for a couple of years, the men remained closely connected throughout their lifetime. Numerous letters signed by Proust testify to his intimate relationship with Hahn, including one for sale at the Sotheby's auction. Dated from March 1896, Proust wrote to Hahn in the letter: "I want you to be there all the time but as a god in disguise that no mortal would recognise." Marcel Proust's Self Portrait with Reynaldo Hahn There were already allusions to Proust's homosexuality in early letters written to two of his classmates. Throughout In Search of Lost Time, the novelist also refers to questions of sexuality without ever admitting he was gay himself. This was only made public after the death of Proust when his correspondence with writer André Gide was published. Plagued by illness Marcel Proust spent most his life in poor heath. He had his first asthma attack at the age of nine. In 1903, the death of both of his parents within two months plunged the then 34-year-old into a severe depression. Proust and his mother had a particularly close relationship. The narrator of In Search of Lost Time describes how it was impossible for him to fall asleep as a boy without a goodnight kiss. In his grief, Proust progressively retired from society. He started working on his monumental epic in 1909, writing most of the seven volumes while bedridden with asthma. "I've lived lying down for 15 years," he complained in one of his letters. Marcel Proust died on November 18, 1922 at the age of 51. The undisputed star, and enfant terrible, of modern French literature, Michel Houellebecq writes novels such as "Platform" and "Submission" that continually provoke public debate about capitalism, religion and sexual politics. Houellebecq will attend the Frankfurt fair with his new book, "In Schopenhauer's Presence," which describes how the German philosopher has long inspired the French author. Sometimes referred to as the female Houellebecq, Virginie Despentes has also been writing provocative novels for over two decades. She is best-known for "Baise-moi," her rape and revenge novel from 1993 that she also made into a cult film. Her autobiographical book, "King Kong Theory," recounts her time in the sex industry. She comes to Frankfurt with her novel trilogy, "Vernon Subutex." Next to Despentes, Yasmina Reza is among France's best-known female writers. She has penned several internationally lauded plays, including "God of Carnage," which was also adapted into an award-winning film by Roman Polanski. More recently, Reza has found success as a novelist. Her new book, "Babylon," plays again to Reza's strengths with its satirical take on bourgeois societal manners. French-Moroccan novelist Leïla Slimani was awarded France's top literary prize, the Goncourt, in 2016 with "Chanson douce" (translated as "Sweet Song"), her novel about a nanny with a deadly agenda. Born in 1981, the novelist and journalist first gained attention with her debut, "Dans le Jardin de l'Ogre" ("In the Ogre's Garden"), that portrays the demise of a sex addict. Still only 24, Édouard Louis has taken the French literary scene by storm with politically charged, autobiographical novels that explicitly reveal his own experience growing up queer among the underclasses of rural France. Following his breakout success, "The End of Eddy," Louis comes to Frankfurt to promote "History of Violence," an English translation of which will be released in 2018. Born in 1953, Didier Eribon was long one of France's most famous sociologists until his 2009 book, "Return to Reims," an exploration of his working class origins (and the homophobia he faced), also made him a literary heavyweight – and inspired upcoming novelist Édouard Louis. His new book is called "Society as a Judgment," which also deals with class and identity. Somewhat like Didier Eribon, the autobiographical works of the author Annie Ernaux also derive from a sociological view of the world – and her experiences growing up in small town France. Her highly personal accounts of family, affairs, abortions and breast cancer have also been distilled into "The Years," a best-selling and highly acclaimed memoir that will be published in English next month. Following the success of her award-winning breakout novel, "No et moi" (No and Me), about a special friendship between two very different teenage girls, Delphine de Vigan has since confirmed her literary renown with the fictional memoir "Nothing Holds Back the Night," which won over critics when published in English in 2014. Her latest novel is a psychological thriller, "Based on a True Story." Author: Jochen Kürten, Stuart Braun