A visitor to Munich who missed Saturday's thrilling German Cup final could be forgiven for thinking that Bayern and not Eintracht Frankfurt had been victorious in Berlin. About 15,000 fans of the German champions lined the streets of the Bavarian capital on Sunday to say goodbye to coach Jupp Heynckes once again, with the 73-year-old coach to retire after being tempted back for one last crack at the Bayern job last October. “The lads have worked superbly all year,” Heynckes said. “It was quite easy for me. The players showed me so much respect. We worked together so harmoniously. We all came together.” The three-time Bayern boss thanked the club's supporters outside the city hall and lifted the Bundesliga's shield to great acclaim. There was little escaping the fact that his successor Niko Kovac had spoilt the party somewhat but Heynckes said he still considered his final season in the dugout a success. Just the one for Jupp in final season "If you are clear German champions, if you are a few centimeters away in the Champions League final and in the DFB Cup final, then I'm not going to let anything bad to be said about this outstanding season," he said. The night before, Bayern's keeper Sven Ulreich had admitted to a sense of disappointment at not securing a second German Cup title for Heynckes, the first coming in the famous treble season of 2012-13. "We all wanted a different game to wish him farewell and end with a trophy. He’s the greatest coach Germany has ever seen,” Ulreich said. Center back Mats Hummels was equally downbeat: "I thought we'd only do that [celebrate on Sunday] if we won the cup. I'll be honest, I don't need that after losing a final." Heynckes' trophy haul as a boss makes Ulreich's claim a legitimate one. As well as four Bundesliga titles, a UEFA Cup and a World Cup as a player with Borussia Mönchengladbach and West Germany, Heynckes has picked up four Bundesligas, two Champions League titles and several other cups in his time with Bayern and Real Madrid but said the time is right to call it a day. “I’m not 45 or 50. I understand my own strengths. At 73, you don’t know how long you’ve got left. I’d like to enjoy my life again starting next week,” he said. Kovac tasked with improving existing players Bayern's thoughts now turn to Kovac, who returns to the club where he played between 2001 and 2003. But, it seems he won't be presented with a ready-made superstar for his first season in charge. Bayern president Uli Hoeness said on Sunday that he expects Kovac to work harder on "making our players better" and isn't expecting a major outlay in the close season. "We need a player or two who can do a great job in important games and not when playing against the weakest opponents, and that's what we need to work on," Hoeness said. Arguably the most critical match of Bayern's latest title win came in the Champions League. The Bavarians lost 3-0 to Paris Saint-Germain, a humiliating defeat that lead to the sacking of Carlo Ancelotti. They had picked up 14 points in their first six league games, five points fewer than first-placed Borussia Dortmund. Jupp Heynckes would soon return for a fourth spell in the hot seat. By the beginning of November, Bayern were level on points with Borussia Dortmund and one ahead of Leipzig — runners up the previous year. This game at Allianz Arena had been hyped as a title clash, but the early dismissal of Willi Orban (third from right) ended that. James Rodriguez and Robert Lewandowski scored to put the champions back on top. After a flying start, Dortmund's slide had begun, while Bayern's star was in the ascendancy. Still, a BVB win on matchday 11 would've put them within a point of their rivals. But Bayern were having none of it. Arjen Robben opened the scoring in a typically ruthless display that confirmed Bayern as overwhelming title favorites and continued the spiral that would lead to Peter Bosz's Dortmund exit. A 1-0 win over newly promoted Stuttgart is the sort of bread and butter win that Bayern manage to eke out better than anyone else. Thomas Müller (right) was the man that came up with a late goal this time round, with the matchday 17 win meaning Bayern took a mammoth 11 point lead in to the winter break. All looked rosy after the winter break but there were a few bumps in the road — particularly in the matchday 20 clash with Hoffenheim, where Bayern were two down in the first 12 minutes. True to form, the Bavarians showed their mettle to roar back to a 5-2 win sealed by January signing Sandro Wagner's first for the club. Many speculated that James Rodriguez wouldn't work at Bayern, especially when Carlo Ancelotti was no longer head coach. But the Colombian has been one of the best players at the club this season and so it was fitting that his goal against Augsburg on Matchday 29 not only gave Bayern the lead, but also the club's sixth straight Bundesliga title. Author: Matt Pearson