On Thursday, US President Donald Trump surprised the world by announcing his decision to suspend the proposed historic summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, which was scheduled to take place on June 12 in Singapore. The decision came after officials from both sides exchanged a series of hostile statements, repeatedly threatening to engage each other in a nuclear showdown. In his letter to Kim, Trump blames the cancellation of the summit on aggressive statements from Pyongyang, and claims that the US military "is ready if necessary." North Korea responded by emphasizing Kim's commitment to resolve issues with Washington. "We tell the United States once more that we are open to resolving problems at anytime in any way," said North Korea's Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan in a statement. Reputational cost Following Trump's move, China urged both the US and North Korea to be patient and "show goodwill." An editorial published by China's state-run Global Times pointed out that Trump's move to cancel the meeting hours after Pyongyang demolished a nuclear test site near Punggye-ri could increase North Korea's suspicion about Washington's sincerity, while seriously damaging the progress that has been achieved on the Korean Peninsula in the last few months. "Washington achieved some easy diplomatic goals in the last few weeks after Pyongyang released three American prisoners and dismantled one nuclear test site," wrote Global Times. "But it will now become extremely challenging for Washington to achieve more diplomatic goals." The editorial also argued that Thursday's decision will make an impression on the world that cancelling the summit was a move similar to Washington's decision to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal earlier this month. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yHli Strained ties Beijing's relations with Pyongyang, a traditional ally, had been strained by the nuclear crisis, with China backing a slew of United Nations sanctions following the North's atomic and missile tests. But this year, President Xi Jinping met twice with Kim within two months as they sought to repair ties. China remains North Korea's main strategic and economic partner. Trump suggested earlier this week, before cancelling the summit, that the Chinese president may have had an influence on the young North Korean autocrat, whose position apparently hardened after meeting Xi twice within a short period. But Beijing denied that China had any "ulterior motives," stressing that it was committed to the denuclearization of the peninsula, peace and resolving the issue through dialogue. Chinese analysts believe that Trump's latest move could help North Korea be better understood by the international community, especially since it showed its commitment to denuclearization by dismantling the nuclear test site. "North Korea may accuse the US of having no sincerity on talks but it may not easily break promises on denuclearization," said Lu Chao, a research fellow at the Liaoning Academy of Social Sciences, in an interview with Global Times. Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump's North Korea gamble has backfired North Korea does not want to be like East Germany Jeopardizing progress Global Times also reaffirmed support for North Korea by claiming that Pyongyang's commitment to denuclearization has substantially improved bilateral relations between China and North Korea. To prevent the tense situation from escalating further, the state-run outlet urged Washington and Pyongyang to avoid making any threatening moves and returning to the hostile relationship that could lead to the worst-case scenario for the Korean Peninsula. "China will continue to cultivate a friendly relationship with Pyongyang, and we hope South Korea can keep contributing to maintaining the hard-won peace on the Korean Peninsula," said the editorial. "Washington's decision on Thursday has created a tough situation for itself and all parties involved. Remaining calm will be very important at this point." Responding to Trump's decision to cancel the summit, the spokesperson for China's foreign ministry, Lu Kang, emphasized that China's position on the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula has been clear and consistent. He urged the US and North Korea to cherish the progress that has been achieved so far, while continuing to remain patient and express goodwill towards each other. "We hope the US and North Korea can keep negotiating solutions that can address both sides' concerns, and continue to push for the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula," said Lu during the press conference. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said in his New Year’s address that his country was in the "final stages" of launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). US President-elect Donald Trump, whose inauguration was set for January 20, said on Twitter: "North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the US. It won't happen!" North Korea tested its first ICBM — the Hwasong-14 — on US Independence Day. Kim reportedly told his scientists that "the US would be displeased" by the launch. This, he said, was because "it was given a 'package of gifts' ... on its 'Independence Day.'" Trump wrote on Twitter in response: "North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?" Pyongyang tested its second Hwasong-14 weeks later. Experts estimated the new rocket could reach the US mainland. Trump lashed out at North Korean ally China, writing in a Tweet: "I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk." Trump appeared to threaten swift military action against Pyongyang when he told reporters: "North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen." North Korea responded by threatening to fire a medium-range ballistic missile into the waters around Guam, a US territory in the Pacific Ocean. It did not follow through. Pyongyang sparked international outcry when it test-launched a mid-range ballistic missile — the Hwasong-12 — over Japan. The UN Security Council unanimously condemned the test. Trump said in a White House statement: "Threatening and destabilizing actions only increase the North Korean regime’s isolation in the region and among all nations of the world. All options are on the table." North Korea announced it had successfully tested its sixth nuclear weapon. Pyongyang said it was a powerful type of nuclear weapon called a hydrogen bomb and that it could be placed on top of a ballistic missile. Trump wrote on Twitter: "The United States is considering, in addition to other options, stopping all trade with any country doing business with North Korea." In his first speech at the United Nations, Trump called North Korea a "rogue state" and said Washington "will have no choice than to totally destroy North Korea" if Pyongyang failed to stop its nuclear weapons program. Referring to Kim, he added: "Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime." Kim called Trump a "mentally-deranged US dotard" two days later. North Korea test-fired its third ICBM of 2017. Pyongyang claimed it was a new missile, the Hwasong-15, which was superior to the Hwasong-14 and could hit any target on the US mainland. The US urged allies, including Germany, to break diplomatic ties with North Korea. Berlin ignored the call. Trump also called Kim a "sick puppy." Kim said in his 2018 New Year's address that the North had completed its nuclear weapons program and that a "nuclear button" was on his desk at all times. Trump wrote two days later on Twitter: "Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" South Korean President Moon Jae-in welcomed Kim's sister, Kim Yo Jong, at the presidential house in the South Korean capital. She handed a letter to Moon inviting him to meet the North Korean leader in Pyongyang. Tensions appeared to be thawing. Seoul and Pyongyang had already agreed to send a unified hockey team to compete at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. South Korean National Security Adviser Chung Eui-yong led a delegation on March 5 to Pyongyang to discuss the potential for peace talks. The next day, Chung said both sides had agreed to hold a joint summit in April and set up a telephone hotline between the two capitals. He also said Pyongyang would agree to stop its nuclear weapons and missile tests if the US agreed to hold talks with the North. Chung flew on to Washington, D.C. to speak with Trump. After the meeting, Chung told reporters the US president had agreed to meet Kim by May. Trump later wrote on Twitter: "no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!" Foreign leaders welcomed the historic breakthrough. A week before the scheduled meeting at the border between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, Moon said North Korea wanted "an end to the hostile relations" and had expressed a commitment to "complete denuclearization" of the peninsula. The next day, the telephone hotline was connected for the first time since February 2016, so Moon and Kim could talk directly. Kim announced North Korea would stop nuclear and missile tests. Kim said: "We no longer need any nuclear test or test launches of intermediate and intercontinental range ballistic missiles, and because of this the northern nuclear test site has finished its mission." However, no mention was made of its stored nuclear materials and equipment. Kim and Moon Jae-in meet in the border town of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that has divided the two Koreas since the Korean War in 1953. The two leaders vowed to work towards a nuclear-free Korea and pledged an end to war. It was the first time a North Korean leader had set foot across the border since the 1950s and paves the diplomatic way for a Trump-Kim meeting in May or June. South Korea announces its propaganda loudspeakers are to be switched off for good. They had been silenced temporarily ahead of the inter-Korean summit, which prompted the North to halt its broadcasts, too. Pyongyang also said it would adjust its time zone to that of the South as a symbolic gesture. North Korea has been half an hour behind the South since 2015. After North Korea slammed US Vice President Mike Pence for comparing North Korea and Libya, Donald Trump abruptly canceled the summit. Trump said the move was due to "tremendous anger and open hostility" displayed by Pyongyang. Author: Alexander Pearson, Nicole Goebel