US President Donald Trump's announcement on Tuesday that he intends to withdraw the United States from the Iran nuclear deal drew opposing reactions from world leaders. While some praised the president for turning his back on a "flawed" deal, others argued that Trump's decision itself undermines the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), concluded in 2015 after years of negotiation, and raises uncertainty not only between the US and Iran but also between transatlantic allies. The French Foreign Ministry announced Wednesday that representatives from France, Germany, and the UK — all signatory nations of the nuclear deal — would meet with Iranian representatives next Monday. Read more:  What is the Iran nuclear deal? Maas (right) and his French counterpart Le Drian (left) will meet next week to discuss the Iran deal Germany Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said that Germany, France and the UK would speak with one voice on the Iran accord: "We remain committed to the nuclear deal," he said in Berlin on Wednesday. "The deal is working. We want to keep the controls and transparency rules in place," he added. Maas also called on Iran to continue to act calmly and fulfill the obligations laid out in the deal. The German minister said that Trump's decision was "incomprehensible" and had dealt a blow to stability in the Middle East. He also addressed the fears of a fallout for German businesses, promising that the potential effects on companies would be analyzed. In the aftermath of Trump's announcement, German business leaders had expressed concern over potential US-imposed sanctions on German companies that have relations with Iran: "The reintroduction of US sanctions would cause enormous insecurity in the German economy," said Volker Treier, the head of foreign economics at the Association of German Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Read more: Iran nuclear deal: Germany's special role and plans Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xOMh Europe In a joint statement provided by British Prime Minister Theresa May's office, Germany, France and the UK requested the US not obstruct other nations as they attempt to implement the deal and urged Iran to "show restraint" and continue fulfilling its own obligations. Read more: Iran nuclear deal: Has Europe done enough to save it? UK Foreign Minister Boris Johnson told parliament on Wednesday that Britain had done its best to prevent Trump from leaving the deal. He added that the UK would stick to the deal as long as Iran continues to fulfill its terms. The minister added that Britain would never accept a nuclear-armed Iran. French President Emmanuel Macron, who also had tried to persuade Trump to remain in the deal, tweeted his disappointment and resolve: "France, Germany and the UK regret the US decision to leave the JCPOA. The nuclear non-proliferation regime is at stake. We will work collectively on a broader framework, covering nuclear activity, the post-2025 period, ballistic activity and stability in the Middle East, notably Syria, Yemen and Iraq." Russia, which also helped negotiate the Iran deal, said it was "deeply disappointed" by Trump's unilateral decision. Federica Mogherini, the European Union's foreign policy chief, who helps supervise the way Iran and the six world powers implement the deal and settle any disputes, said in a press statement on Tuesday that the deal "is not in the hands of a single country." "The European Union is determined to act in accordance with its security interests and to protect its economic investments," she said. In a message directed at Iran, Mogherini said: "Do not let anyone dismantle this agreement. It is one of the biggest achievements diplomacy has ever delivered, and we have built this together." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xOVF Iran Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, challenged Trump's decision: "You cannot do a damn thing!" he said while meeting with school teachers in Tehran on Wednesday. On his official website, Khamenei, who is Iran's highest religious and state authority, also derided Trump's announcement as "silly and superficial." Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said Tehran would remain in the international accord, but scolded Trump for his decision. In "exiting the deal, America has officially undermined its commitment to an international treaty," the Iranian leader said. Rouhani said he would like to speak with the five nations that remain in the deal, but he simultaneously warned that "whenever it is needed, [Iran] will start enriching uranium more than before." The president of Iran's parliament, Ali Larijani, said the US president lacked the mental capacity to deal with problems. Lawmakers on Wednesday set a paper US flag on fire in the Iranian parliament and yelled, "Death to America!" Iranian lawmakers protested in a parliament session following Donald Trump's announcement Middle East Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hailed Trump's "historic move," calling the deal a "recipe for disaster, a disaster for our region, a disaster for the peace of the world." Israel is a close ally of the United States and Netanyahu has been in favor of scrapping the deal. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, two other US allies, also praised Trump's announcement. "Iran used economic gains from the lifting of sanctions to continue its activities to destabilise the region, particularly by developing ballistic missiles and supporting terrorist groups in the region," the Saudi Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Anwar Gargash, UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, tweeted that the accord "would have led to a regional nuclear race with little trust in Iran's intentions." US politicians divided In a rare move, former US President Barack Obama, whose administration negotiated the current deal, called Trump's decision "misguided" in a statement posted on his Facebook page. "The reality is clear. The JCPOA is working — that is a view shared by our European allies, independent experts, and the current US Secretary of Defense. The JCPOA is in America's interest — it has significantly rolled back Iran's nuclear program," Obama said. "In a democracy, there will always be changes in policies and priorities from one Administration to the next. But the consistent flouting of agreements that our country is a party to risks eroding America's credibility, and puts us at odds with the world's major powers." The "worst deal ever": That's how Donald Trump described the 2015 landmark agreement that lifted international sanctions against Iran in exchange for the country dismantling its atomic program. In May 2018 the president followed through on a campaign promise and said he would withdraw the US from the deal, which had arisen out of painstaking multi-year negotiations. In February 2016 then-US President Barack Obama signed the free trade agreement known as the TPP along with 11 other Pacific nations. However, it never went into effect: Shortly after taking office, Trump signed an executive order that took the US out of the deal, thus keeping it from entering into force. The scuttled TPP evolved into a new regional trade partnership — without the US. The Paris climate accord was adopted in December 2015 after the COP 21 meeting. All 195 participating member states and the EU agreed to reduce emissions, decrease carbon output and try to rein in global warming. The US signed the accord but support was short-lived: in November 2017 Trump told the UN that the US would withdrawal from the accord at the earliest possible date, November 2019. Trump not only has undone US participation in international climate deals but also has scrapped domestic environmental regulations. Scott Pruit, Trump's head of the Environmental Protection Agency, announced in March 2018 that Obama-era vehicle emissions standards would be rolled back. And at the very start of his term, Trump also said he would review the Clean Water Act and Clean Power Plan. The ACA, nicknamed "Obamacare," was landmark legislation that roughly halved the number of medically uninsured Americans through program expansion and insurance mandates. Its critics, Trump among them, described it as federal government overreach that would cause skyrocketing health costs for individuals. While total repeal has failed, Republicans did do away with the mandate in 2017 tax reform. Author: Cristina Burack American congressional leaders were split over Trump's decision to take the US out of the deal. Senate majority leader, Republican Mitch McConnell, said the Iran deal was a "deeply flawed agreement" and that he shared Trump's commitment that "Iran should never be able to acquire or develop a nuclear weapon." Conversely, Senate minority leader, Democrat Chuck Schumer, said it appeared the Trump administration had no plan going forward. Read more: Opinion: Trump's Iran nuclear deal exit dangerous for the world Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. cmb, dv/rt (AP, Reuters)