Venezuela's National Electoral Council (CNE) announced on Sunday the re-election of President Nicolas Maduro with 67.7 percent of the vote. His closest challenger, Henri Falcon, came in second with 21.2 percent, while Javier Bertucci was third with 10 percent. CNE President Tibisay Lucena announced the results with 92.6 percent reporting and said the turnout was 46.1 percent. Read more: Venezuela's economic demise hovers over elections Amid reports of tepid turnout, polling stations remained open more than two hours after they were scheduled to close. Nicolas Maduro holds a pocket-sized copy of the constitution as he speaks to supporters "They underestimated me," Maduro told cheering supporters outside Miraflores presidential palace in Caracas, in the midst of fireworks and confetti. In his speech, the Venezuelan president said he felt legitimized by the vote, saying there would be no more elections in the next two years. Maduro expressed a willingness to sit down with his opponents, openly reached out to them and spoke about his government's wish for peace. But Maduro also basked in his wide-margin victory, calling his win "historic" and "record breaking." Unconcerned about low turnout, Maduro asserted that even if the opposition had not boycotted the vote, he still would have won. The successor to Chavez's legacy, he touted the large number of elections that Chavismo has won since 1998. Maduro added that the movement he had inherited was the "strongest political force" in the country. "Today I love Venezuela more than ever," Maduro said. Voters heed boycott call The Democratic Unity Roundtable (MUD), the united opposition parties' alliance, had sent out a clear message asking voters to abstain from going to the ballot box. The decision to not participate in the vote was made in protest, as a rejection of the electoral system, which they said was rigged in Maduro's favor. Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues affecting security and sovereignty, effectively taking away the powers of the country's congress, which was under the opposition's leadership. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results of the elections. The traditional opposition parties have boycotted the vote. Having boycotted the elections and with its strongest leaders banned from running, the traditional opposition will not be present in the presidential elections. Only two candidates have emerged to challenge Maduro: Henri Falcon (pictured) and Javier Bertucci. Both have ties to the regime, but polls indicate that Falcon is the one who could present the most serious challenge. Author: Kathleen Schuster The MUD announced on Sunday its own estimation of the turnout, affirming that less than 30 percent of the country's 20.5 million eligible adults cast their ballots. The Associated Press reported that voting centers across Caracas appeared largely empty during Sunday's election. "Maduro has been overwhelmingly defeated by citizens who did not accept blackmail, pressure or intimidation," said Victor Marquez, a member of the Ample Front movement within the MUD. Marquez urged candidates Falcon and Bertucci not to recognize the results, saying the election was fixed. "We want the candidates who presented themselves to take a step forward and not recognize a result that is already cooked," said Marquez. MUD also reported that Venezuelans in 70 cities across the world had demonstrated peacefully against the elections. Read more: Can Germany be a new home for young Venezuelans? Falcon rejects results Candidate Henri Falcon spoke to supporters shortly before the official results were announced and rejected the MUD's call for a boycott, saying that a lower voter turnout made it easier for the government to manipulate the results. "We categorically reject this electoral process," he said, calling for a new election to be carried out in October of this year. In his speech, Falcon detailed the ways in which the government manipulated the vote in its favor. In particular, by setting up stands, so-called "red points," to scan voter's IDs in order to distribute food and money. Candidate Henri Falcon speaking to supporters prior to the announcement of results Maduro's critics have accused the government of tying the ballot with food giveaways and instilling fear among poor Venezuelans about losing the food rations and money transfers they have come to depend on. Falcon said that he received about 900 complaints throughout the day about ruling party employees scanning voters' IDs near polling stations. By the time polls closed, his campaign denounced at least 13,000 government "red points." The existence of "red points" within 200 meters of a polling station would violate existing electoral laws. "The buying of votes, toying with people's dignity, cannot continue," Falcon had said earlier, after casting his ballot in the state of Lara. Falcon, the strongest opposition candidate in the race, also denounced that his election observers were barred from entering polling stations and one of them was beaten by members of the armed forces. International criticism In Chile President Sebastian Pinera rejected Sunday's vote. "Venezuela's elections do not meet minimum standards of true democracy," he said. "Like most major democratic nations, Chile does not recognize these elections." Panama's government quickly followed suit, and said it would not recognize the result. But fellow leftist-run nations Cuba and El Salvador sent congratulations. U.S. Republican senator Marco Rubio, a critic of Maduro, urged isolation of his government and said he supported "all policy options" to return Venezuela to democracy. Bertucci: New elections without Maduro Javier Bertucci echoed Falcon's call to establish new presidential elections in October, but he went further, saying that Maduro should "step aside" and allow a contest with fresh candidates. Bertucci also said he believed that the MUD boycott was a mistake. jcg/sms (EFE, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.