Efforts to locate the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 drew to a close in the remote Indian Ocean on Tuesday, after a private company, hired to extend the search, admitted it had found no trace of the aircraft. Texas-based Ocean Infinity said in a statement it had "searched and collected high-quality data from over 112,000 square kilometers of ocean floor ... overcoming both challenging conditions and terrain," but without success. Oliver Plunkett, Ocean Infinity's chief executive, said the failure to find any sign of the plane was "extremely disappointing." In January, the firm signed a 90-day "no find, no fee" deal with the Malaysian government to resume the hunt for the missing aircraft, a year after the official search was called off. Big reward offered The contract, which guaranteed Ocean Infinity $70 million (€61 million) if it found the wreckage or the black boxes, was extended twice. Flight MH370 disappeared in March 2014 during a routine flight between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing. All 239 people on board are presumed dead. Four years on, very few details are known about what became of the plane or those on board. Read more: MH370 report: Missing plane mystery 'unacceptable' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1Bdyd Several theories have emerged about MH370's fate, including a possible murder-suicide plot by pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shad, which was ruled out by investigators. Others include the remote hacking of the plane, a terrorist hijacking, that it ran out of fuel, or was shot down by an unknown military organization. Investigators have had little to go on except for traces of data that the plane left on satellite and radar, and a few pieces of wreckage that have washed up on Indian Ocean islands. The original search focused on the South China Sea, before analysis revealed the Boeing 777 had made an unexpected turn west and then south. Australia then coordinated an official search on Malaysia's behalf that scoured 120,000 square kilometers (46,000 square miles) and cost $150 million, before it ended last January. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1JUkW Read more: End of search for Malaysia Airlines plane MH370 - 'We still need answers' 'Holding out hope' Australia's Deputy Prime Minister Michael McCormack said on Tuesday he is holding out hope that the aircraft may one day be found. He described the four-year search as the largest in aviation history, which had tested the limits of technology as well as the capacity of experts and those working at sea. McCormack said fresh searches may one day be launched if new technologies emerge, but doubted Australia will take part in any new search efforts "at this stage." Malaysia's new government, meanwhile, promised to release its long-awaited report into the plane's disappearance. Transport Minister Anthony Loke said it would be published in the near future, without giving a date. The search for the wreckage mustn't be called off, said Grace Nathan (left) shortly before she flew to Madagascar. Her mother was on board flight MH370. The official search is due to be abandoned in February 2017 if nothing is found before then. Relatives of those on board are protesting. "We'll pay for it ourselves," Nathan said. "The search must go on." In March 2014, for reasons that are still unclear, MH370 deviated from its course from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing and flew south for hours without making radio contact. Investigators believe that the Boeing with 239 people on board went down over the Indian Ocean when its fuel ran out. Experts disagree as to the precise location of the crash. Some of the passengers' relatives have formed a group called "Voice370." They are critical of the official proceedings. They say "no systematic, organized search" is taking place in the western Indian Ocean, although pieces of wreckage thought to be part of the plane have been found there. Seven of the relatives are now heading to Madagascar, where they themselves plan to search until December 11. The official search is concentrating on an area of 120,000 kilometers in the southern Indian Ocean. Australia, Malaysia and China are taking part in what is one of the biggest search operations in aviation history. There's been talk of calling it off since the middle of 2016. On 29 July 2015, a wing flap about two meters long washed up on the tropical French island of La Reunion. The wreckage was subsequently identified as part of the missing Boeing 777. Other possible pieces of wreckage have been found in Tanzania, Mozambique, South Africa and on the island of Mauritius. At the end of January 2015, Malaysia's civil aviation authority officially classified the unresolved incident an "accident" and declared all 239 people on board dead. But many people don't believe it really was an accident. Relatives have been demonstrating publicly - as here, in China - because they don't feel they're being given all the information. In July 2015 the New York Magazine reported that a few weeks before the disaster the captain had practiced - on a flight simulator - the route the passenger jet is believed to have taken over the southern Indian Ocean. The magazine cited confidential records from the Malaysian police probe. Despite this discovery, the plane's disappearance remains one of the greatest mysteries in aviation history. Author: Greta Hamann Relatives of those on board have complained that the lack of evidence, along with competing rumors and theories, has worsened their trauma. Voice 370, a group representing the families of the victims, has called for full transparency from Malaysian investigators, after concerns that details about the plane's full cargo manifest are being covered up. mm/rt (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)