Working both in her home country and in the US, Heidi Klum is one of the world's most successful celebrities. Her impressive career as a model has allowed her to venture into lucrative business and entertainment projects, and she shows no signs of slowing down at age 44. "There aren't many world stars coming from Germany with that level of fame. It's Angela Merkel and Heidi," Thomas Hayo, a fashion photographer and one of Klum's judges on Germany's Next Topmodel (GNTM), told Forbes magazine last year. Since 2006, millions of mainly young female viewers have been watching Heidi Klum host Germany's Next Topmodel on commercial TV channel ProSieben. The reality TV show is based on the original America's Next Top Model, which her friend and fellow model, Tyra Banks, started in New York City in 2004. Earning $21 million in 2017, Klum is the only German-born star among the world's top 10 highest-paid TV hosts, according to Forbes magazine As the central figure of the show, Klum makes it clear when she disapproves of a candidate's efforts, but will show her beaming, signature smile when a model performs well. On May 24, during a live broadcast in Düsseldorf — near Klum's hometown of Bergisch Gladbach — Klum and her two fellow judges, Hayo and the German fashion designer Michael Michalsky, will choose this season's winner. Praise and criticism "I think most of the German people honor and admire Heidi's professionalism and huge success. They are proud of our only worldwide TV star," Michalsky told DW. "Heidi Klum has the image in Germany of the smart business woman. She's both self-confident and witty: the perfect host for Germany's Next Topmodel. She represents success and discipline," points out Franziska Frosch, Deputy Editor-in-Chief of ELLE Germany, who argues that Klum embodies the stereotype of the self-made woman. "If you believe Heidi Klum, it's not so much a gift from heaven that makes you attractive, but rather the result of hard work, self-control and personal evolution," Frosch told DW. However, Klum's popular TV show is also widely criticized, for instance for the fact that models are never to question her decisions: "Germany's Next Topmodel isn't harmless entertainment, but rather sends a political message: The ideal is to be powerless, in total submission to authority," wrote German national newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in a review of the current season. A gossip magazine favorite It's not just Klum's professional projects that the German media scrutinize. "Despite all her perfection, her turbulent love life surely makes her entertaining and approachable. Again and again, her presence in the tabloids certainly generates sales," Franziska Frosch said. To this day, Klum's love life is a theme of constant fascination. She made headlines by showing up in Cannes with her new boyfriend, Tokio Hotel guitarist Tom Kaulitz, aged 28. Before Kaulitz, Klum was dating Vito Schnabel, an art curator 13 years her junior. In the past, she was married to the singer Seal, with whom she shares three biological children; the musician also adopted Klum's first child. Heidi Klum's collaboration with German global discount supermarket Lidl was just the next chapter in the supermodel's long and successful career. Now 44, it all began for Heidi with a modeling contest in 1992. After winning against thousands of contestants, the teenager from Bergisch Gladbach graduated from high school and then moved to the US in 1993. Klum's breakthrough came in 1998 when she was chosen for the cover of Sports illustrated. That same year she began working with Victoria's Secret, whose annual lingerie shows (like this one pictured in 2008) are legendary. Heidi became the first angel from Germany to walk at the event. Apart from the Victoria's Secret shows (pictured here in 2009), Klum did more photo modeling than catwalks. In 2011, fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld criticized her for not appearing at the major fashion shows. Klum's response? At 176 cm tall, she was "too short and round." Since 2004, Heidi Klum has been ensuring her profession doesn't run out of young models — in front of TV cameras in both Germany and the US. On Germany's Next Topmodel, she searches for the most beautiful girl in the country, amidst plenty of trials, tears and troubles. Klum consistently rejects criticism that she is perpetuating unhealthy beauty ideals for young women. Heidi Klum became a US citizen in 2008. She is known for extravagantly celebrating the American holiday of Halloween. Since 2000, she has invited her celebrity friends to a massive Halloween bash. There is also a lot of speculation ahead of time over her own costume, which is always elaborate and never disappoints — such as this one in 2003. Klum's private life hasn't always been a walk in the park. After a six-year marriage with hair stylist Ric Pipino, she had her first child with Italian Formula 1 manager Flavio Briatore in 2004. A year later, she married British pop singer Seal (pictured), with whom she has three children. They divorced in 2012. After a short affair with Red Hot Chili Peppers frontman Anthony Kiedis, Klum spent three years together with Vito Schnabel, the son of American artist Julian Schnabel. They broke up in 2017. She went public about dating Tokio Hotel musician Tom Kaulitz (pictured) during the Cannes Film Festival. But Heidi doesn't have any time for relationship drama. Besides producing her modeling casting shows — she even got an Emmy for Project Runway in 2015 — she has also appeared in the US series Sex and the City and Desperate Housewives. In addition, she designs fashion collections, including the newest one for Lidl, writes books, and spends time with her four children. Author: Katharina Abel (kbm) The American Heidi Klum had her start in 1992 through a German modelling competition, landing on the covers of the international editions of fashion magazines. She caught the American public's eye when she appeared on the cover of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue in 1998, and became the first German model on Victoria's Secret Angels' prestigious line-up. Klum leads a true trans-Atlantic life. When she isn't working on GNTM or on her fashion line with German supermarket chain Lidl, she acts as a judge on two American TV shows. Since 2004, Klum has served on the panel of Project Runway, a cult hit reality TV series, where budding fashion designers compete against each other in a series of weekly challenges. She also has a producer credit on the show. Klum has been one of the original judges since its inception, with "Auf Wiedersehen" serving as her famous catchphrase to bid farewell to the losing contestants. Similar to her GNTM persona, she is direct with her criticism and earnest, yet exudes warmth and encouragement. Since 2007, Project Runway has been consistently nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Reality-Competition Program. Up until 2017, Harvey Weinstein was an executive producer for the show, and Klum opened up about how he lost that credit since the sexual harassment and assault accusations surfaced. "I truly admire these brave women who are coming forward to share their stories because change cannot come unless there is a dialogue and people are held accountable," Klum told People magazine. Klum also participates in determining the fate of contestants on America's Got Talent. As one of four judges on the panel, Klum's down-to-earth and girl-next-door personality comes through when delivering her feedback. 'Do we have an expiration date?' With her feet firmly planted on both sides of the Atlantic and jet-setting around the world, Klum remains a force in fashion and media, while also balancing motherhood with her busy life. And if any of her followers wonder if she is about to disappear from the spotlight, fear not. She discussed modelling her own lingerie line on Ellen Degeneres' show a few months ago: "Sometimes people say, 'You're 44, you're turning 45. Why are you not giving the baton to someone else?' But I always think there are a lot of women my age, 50, 60, 70. What? Do we have an expiration date? Can we not also still feel sexy? I feel sexy." According to her legion of international fans, she definitely still is.