Yisrael Katz told the Reuters news agency that the endorsement of Israel's 51-year occupation of the Golan Heights is "topping the agenda" in current talks with the US and that Washington could make a decision within a few months.  The White House has neither confirmed nor denied the comments. Such a move would follow the Trump administration's widely criticized decisions to move the US embassy to Jerusalem and leave the Iran nuclear deal.  Read more: What is the Iran nuclear deal? What Israeli Intelligence Minister Yisrael Katz said In an interview with Reuters he said: In a subsequent interview with Israeli news service ynet he said: President Donald Trump announced on May 8 that he was pulling the United States out of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, arguing that the international accord was not in America's "national interest." The decision threw a cloud of uncertainty over the future of the nuclear accord and raised tensions with US allies in Europe. Britain, France and Germany lobbied the Trump administration and Congress to remain in the nuclear accord, arguing that the deal was working and a US violation without a follow up plan would be destabilizing. In European capitals, the Trump administration's withdrawal was viewed as a slap in the face of allies. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), better known as the Iran nuclear deal, was signed in 2015 by United States, China, Russia, France, Germany and Britain (P5+1) and Iran following years of negotiations. Under the international agreement, Iran agreed to dismantle its nuclear program and be subject to monitoring in exchange for the lifting on international nuclear related sanctions. The JCPOA includes a robust monitoring, verification and inspection regime carried out by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The UN watch dog has verified Iran's compliance with the deal in 12 quarterly reports. The JCPOA allows Iran to pursue a peaceful nuclear program for commercial, medical and industrial purposes in line with international non-proliferation standards. The Iran nuclear deal was President Barack Obama's signature foreign policy achievement. Seeking to undo nearly every Obama administration legacy, Trump came into office calling it the "worst deal ever." The Trump administration argues the nuclear deal doesn't address other unrelated issues such as Iran's ballistic missiles, regional influence, support for "terrorist" groups and human rights. The nuclear deal and lifting of punishing nuclear related international sanctions created optimism in Iran after years of economic isolation. However, even before Trump pulled the US out of the deal, Tehran blamed the US for holding back international investment and not fulfilling its end of the bargain due to the uncertainty created by Trump's threats. After eight years with Barack Obama, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu found the US president he wanted in Donald Trump. The Israeli leader repeatedly slammed the deal despite his own military and intelligence chiefs' assessment the that JCPOA, while not perfect, was working and should be maintained. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are the other main opponents of the nuclear deal. The EU-3 (Britain, France, Germany) are scrambling to ensure that Iran receives the economic benefits it was promised in order to avoid Tehran pulling out of the deal. As EU businesses face retaliation from the US for doing business with Iran, many are opting to avoid Iran. This would likely be a present to Chinese and Russian businesses. White House noncommittal The White House declined to confirm or deny the report, telling Reuters "We meet with Israel on a wide range of issues." What are the Golan Heights? The western two-thirds of Syria's Golan Heights were captured by Israel in the 1967 war. It has since had control over the region, but Israeli sovereignty has never been internationally recognized. In 2000, Israel and Syria held their highest-level talks over a possible return of the Golan and a peace agreement, which ultimately failed. Today, Israel argues that the civil war in Syria and Iran's support for Syria means Israel needs the Golan Heights as a strategic plateau. Read more: Iran denies attacking Israeli positions What Israel wants: Israel is keen to contain its arch-enemy Iran. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu raised the issue of sovereignty over Golan with US President Donald Trump last spring. Trump agreed to put it on the agenda. Israel is hoping that the fact that the US exited the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) - or the Iran nuclear deal — and its decision to recognize Jerusalem as the Israeli capital will provide further momentum for Golan and its fight against Iran. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xL7V 