Denmark's Immigration and Integration Minister Inger Stoejberg has stirred controversy after claiming late on Monday that the celebration of Ramadan was incompatible with the modern labor market.  The minister, who has a reputation for hardline immigration policies, wrote a blog post for the Danish tabloid BT that the month-long Muslim celebration, which includes fasting during daylight hours, was "dangerous for us all." Stoejberg's comments In her post, Stoejberg: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rtWH Reaction in Denmark Many experts came to the defense of Ramadan, saying there was no evidence there had ever been any workplace hazards because of fasting. The head of a Danish bus company told BT they had never had any accidents or complaints related to fasting. Denmark's Muslim Union posted on social media that Muslims were capable of looking after themselves and society "even when we fast." Government spokeswoman Keren Ellmann said on Tuesday that while Stoejberg's comments do not reflect the opinion of the ruling coalition, she "had the right to start this debate." Previous form: A member of the conservative Liberal Party, which has ruled a minority government since 2015, Stoejberg has become known for her nationalistic rhetoric. In March 2017, she said that ordinary Danes should report their local pizzeria employeesfor illegal labor if they were "not speaking Danish at all." Every year, millions of practicing Muslims across the world fast, pray and give alms in observance of Islam's holiest month. From firing off cannon to lunar sightings, DW explores how Muslims mark the occasion and what it means to the faithful. The sighting of the new moon of Ramadan is practiced by religious authorities across the globe to determine the beginning of the month of fasting. While some observe the new moon with telescopes, others use the naked eye, which is why Ramadan may begin on different days in certain parts of the world. Prayer is often considered a fundamental part of observing the month of fasting. Ramadan traditionally begins with a special prayer known as "Tarawih" on the eve of the holy month. During Ramadan, practicing Muslims generally participate in communal prayer at their local mosque. The month of fasting represents a period of spiritual discipline and purification. As such, reading and reciting the Quran, Islam's holy book, form an integral part of the traditional rituals observed during Ramadan. The Quran is believed to have been revealed to the Prophet Muhammad during the month of Ramadan. While Islam offers prescribed rituals to observe during Ramadan, many places have local traditions that coincide with the month of fasting. In Sarajevo, a cannon is traditionally fired to mark the breaking of the fast on each day of Ramadan. In Egypt, displaying a decorated lantern known as a "fanous" is part of the tradition. After a long day without food and water, many Muslims traditionally break their fast with a date, the nutritious fruit with which the Prophet Muhammad is believed to have broken his fast. Afterwards, observing Muslims often partake in a communal dinner known as "Iftar." The celebration of Eid al-Fitr, or the festival of breaking the fast, marks the official end of Ramadan. From indulging in sweets to offering gifts to loved ones, Muslims celebrate the end of the fasting month with large meals prepared for friends and family. It is considered a joyful time in which to be generous and kind to others. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Legislative action: Stoejberg has overseen dozens of statutes tightening immigration laws under her tenure, such as requirements for learning Danish, tougher citizenship tests and financial independence. Stoejberg has limited the amount of social services available to asylum seekers and promoted a lawthat obligates refugees to give up their valuables – prompting many comparisons to Nazi Germany. Courting controversy: Last year, she was criticized for posting a picture of herself besides a cake bearing the Danish flag and the number 50 after passing the 50th new immigration law of her tenure. She caused another social media uproar in September after she re-published a 2005 caricature of the Prophet Muhammad that originally appeared in Denmark's Jyllands-Posten, which caused an international outcry amidst claims of racism. es/rt (AP, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.