Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said Europe's attempts to salvage the nuclear deal were inadequate, in comments in Tehran on Sunday.  He said he was particularly concerned by the decisions of various European companies to halt their Iranian operations until the future of sanctions was clear.  Read more: European allies struggle to curb impact of US sanctions Iran's Bushehr nuclear facility was one of five known to international observers. Israel, the United States and allied nations had agreed that Iran's enriching of uranium — for domestic energy purposes, according to officials in Tehran — could pose a threat to the region should it result in the development of nuclear weapons. In 2006, the United States, China and Russia joined France, Germany and Britain in their existing talks with Iran to begin a grueling negotiation process that finally arrived at a deal on July 14, 2015. The agreement that the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and Germany (P5+1) reached with Iran foresaw sanctions relief in exchange for monitoring of Iran's enriching of uranium. In Tehran and other cities across Iran, people celebrated what they believed would be an end to years of economic isolation that had had serious effects on public health and nutrition by reducing access to medical supplies and food for ordinary people. Many also saw the agreement as proof that the self-avowed reformist president, Hassan Rouhani, sought to open Iran up to the world in other ways. The International Atomic Energy Agency was tasked with monitoring Iran's compliance with the deal. IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano (left) traveled to Tehran to meet with Rouhani in December 2016, nearly a year and a half after the deal was signed. In reports delivered quarterly, the IAEA repeatedly certified Iran's compliance. After eight years with Barack Obama, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu found the US president he wanted in Donald Trump, who, with no experience in diplomacy or nuclear science, had made calling the international accord "the worst deal ever negotiated" a staple of his 2016 election campaign. Despite the IAEA's certifications and protests from within his own State Department, Trump withdrew the US from the agreement on May 8. The remaining parties have vowed to move forward. The European Union's top diplomat, Federica Mogherini (left), held talks earlier this week with (left to right) the foreign ministers of Iran, France, Germany and Britain. What Zarif said "With the exit of the United States from the nuclear deal, the expectations of the Iranian public towards the European Union have increased ... and the EU's political support for the nuclear agreement is not sufficient," Zarif said in comments carried by state broadcaster IRIB. "The cascade of decisions by EU companies to end their activities in Iran makes things much more complicated," he told reporters. "The EU must take concrete supplementary steps to increase its investments in Iran. The commitments of the EU to apply the nuclear deal are not compatible with the announcement of probable withdrawal by major European companies," Zarif said. He was speaking after meeting with EU Energy Commissioner Miguel Arias Canete, whose two-day visit to Iran was the first by a Western official since Washington announced its withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear deal earlier this month. Read more: No clear benefit from Trump's reimposing sanctions on Iran Investments on hold French oil major Total has said it will abandon its $4.8 billion (€4.1 billion) Iranian investment project unless Washington grants it a waiver from sanctions. Fellow French energy giant, Engie, has said it will halt engineering work in the country before November, when US sanctions are due to be reimposed. Germany tries to sell the deal Meanwhile in Buenos Aires, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas urged other signatories to uphold the 2015 nuclear deal. At a meeting of G20 foreign ministers he said, "Giving it up means entering a completely uncertain future as far as the question of nuclear weapons in Iran is concerned." "It's not really about Iran; it's about our own original security interests, German as well as European." But it will be difficult to progress the deal in Buenos Aires with the absence of several key players on Monday, including Russia's Sergey Lavrov, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini and, most notably, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Pompeo is scheduled to give a speech on Monday in Washington on US hopes of reaching a new nuclear deal with Iran. Read more: Iran deal: The European Union's ugly options The Vienna meeting German newspaper Welt am Sonntag reported that Germany, France, Britain, Russia and China would be meeting in Vienna this week to discuss how to maintain the nuclear accord. Read more: Germany to meet with France, Britain, Russia and China to save Iran nuclear deal: report It said a potential deal would be largely the same as the 2015 deal, but with added stipulations on Iran's ballistic missile program and Tehran's support of armed groups in the Middle East. But, according to Reuters news agency, unnamed EU sources denied they will discuss offering Iran financial aid in exchange for concessions. "The Vienna meeting next Friday will address the implementation issues and details" of the deal, one EU source said. "The meeting will not cover any other issues." aw/sms (dpa, AFP, AP, Reuters) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xvHV