If Harvey Weinstein had been born a decade or two earlier, the chances are he would have gotten away with it. On Friday morning, as he paraded past throngs of journalists and onlookers en route to turn himself in to New York police, perhaps this thought even crossed his mind. It is easy to imagine that he might be cursing the zeitgeist. After all, based on the accounts of dozens of women, for most of his professional life, he had learned that as long as you had the power to demean them or the money to silence them, women were a commodity that could be easily controlled. Then, at the age of sixty-six, just as he was preparing to look back on a glittering career in Hollywood, suddenly time was up. For a man who had spent his life in control of narratives, the moment must have come as a profound shock. Seemingly out of nowhere, women whose careers and bodies he had so effortlessly commanded were no longer prepared to read off the script he had prepared for them. And to his horror, their voices were being heard, and more importantly, amplified. Read more: Ashley Judd sues Weinstein for defamation, ruining career 82 prominent female directors and actors stand in solidarity with the #MeToo movement at the Cannes Film Festival Why now? So what happened? Why, for the first time ever, has the widespread sexual abuse of women become a matter for public discussion? As Harvey Weinstein continues to scratch his head, here are two possible explanations. The first lies in the power of the two words which came to symbolize the movement demanding change: Me Too. In psychology, the 'first follower' theory is the idea that for a new idea to take off, it needs to win one adherent. In other words, there's no point trying to lead a movement if you can't persuade a single person of its cause. A self-proclaimed leader will make no progress fomenting a revolution if they can't persuade anyone to join. Once they win a 'first follower,' however, the idea receives validation, and the risk of others being ridiculed for supporting it diminishes. Read more: "An avalanche of changes will follow #MeToo, says Berlinale director DW's Kate Ferguson According to this theory, the first woman to say 'Me Too' holds as much power as she who said "This happened." In these two magic words, the victim hears: "you are not alone." More crucially though, the world hears: she is not alone. And so a conversation is born and a movement ignited. The second reason the world is finally saying "enough is enough" has to do with the visibility of the accusers and the accused. Unfortunately, when it comes to sexual abuse, not all victims or perpetrators are treated equally. The coverage Weinstein received had as much to do with the prominence of the women he preyed on as it did with his own celebrity status. Read more: NYT's Weinstein investigation to become a film Men behaving badly is nothing new You might be surprised to hear that the Me Too movement dates back to 2006. It was established to support a demographic that has been disproportionately affected by sexual abuse: women of color from low-wealth backgrounds. It took twelve years and the humiliation of a powerful white man for their vision to be packaged into a viral hashtag. For many women the cultural shift has come too late. Remember the hotel maid Nafissatou Diallo? You probably don't. In 2011, she accused Dominque Strauss-Kahn, a prominent French politician who was then head of the International Monetary Fund, of sexually assaulting her as she cleaned his room. After failing to claim diplomatic immunity for their client, Strauss-Kahn's lawyers are rumored to have paid Diallo six million dollars for her silence. The case may have ruined Strauss-Kahn's career, but it did not deprive him of a voice. Then there was the young intern Monica Lewinsky. In 1995, when she had an affair with the most powerful man in the world, few people were paying attention to the role power and consent play in the relationships between men and women. Traumatized by her public humiliation, Lewinsky has since re-emerged to prominence and is making it her life's mission to save others from the same fate. Read more: Swedish Nobel Academy confirms 'unacceptable behavior' Weinstein is just the beginning Let us be under no illusions. Harvey Weinstein has surrendered – not to the women he is accused of abusing, but to a change in the zeitgeist. For him, time is up. But all over the world, the most vulnerable women continue to suffer in silence, waiting patiently for their #MeToo moment. It is up to each of us to ensure it comes sooner rather than later. Read more: Opinion: why 2018 is the year of the woman Having launched the #NobodysDoll campaign that questions why women traditionally wear revealing, low-cut dresses and high heels on the red carpet, German actress Anna Brüggemann arrived amid the Berlinale glamor wearing a black sweater — presumably in solidarity with victims of sexual abuse — and flat sneakers, alongside her director brother Dietrich Brüggemann, who decided to show some flesh. Berlinale jury members Adele Romanski (l-r), Ryuichi Sakamoto, Stephanie Zacharek, Tom Tykwer, his wife Marie Steinbach, Festival director Dieter Kosslick, Cecile de France und Jose Maria (Chema) Prado arrive at the screening of Wes Anderson's latest film, one of 19 taking part in the competition that the jury will adjudicate on in nine days. Director Wes Anderson, now 48, is in Berlin to again open the festival (his "Grand Budapest Hotel" opened the 2014 Berlinale), and was flanked by Tilda Swinton and Greta Gerwig (left), who both provided voices for "Isle of Dogs." Gerwig is being tipped to win a best directing Oscar this year for "Lady Bird." While now finding success as a director, Gerwig the actor starred alongside Ben Stiller in the hit 2010 comedy "Greenberg" — which was nominated for a Golden Bear in Berlin. In 2012, Gerwig appeared in Woody Allen's film "To Rome With Love," but she has publicly distanced herself from the director as his adoptive daughter, Dylan Farrow, has continued to accuse him of sexual molestation. The Berlinale is a well-trodden forum for political debate, as is the festival red carpet. One guest to the "Isle of Dogs" screening is seen wearing a "Free Deniz" sticker that refers to the campaign to release imprisoned German journalist, Deniz Yücel, who was arrested in Turkey on February 14, 2017 under "espioniage" charges. When Wes Anderson was asked about how he pulled together such a star-studded cast for "Isle of Dogs," with Jeff Goldblum and Scarlett Johansson providing voice talent, he noted that with "an animated movie you can't really say you're not available. We can say: 'Ok well we can do it anytime - we can do it at your house, we can do it any hour of day and it's just no excuse' and so that helped." Bill Murray has appeared in every Wes Anderson film since his second feature, "Rushmore" (1998). Before arriving on the red carpet, he was asked what it was like to be "just a voice" in "Isle of Dogs." The legendary actor replied with typical wit that "being a voice in this group is like being in the 'We are the World' video." Famed for her role as "Toni Erdmann" in the 2016 Oscar-winning film of the same name, Sandra Hüller has become a darling of both the German and international film world. Her work has pleased critics, as well, who nominated her twice for best actress at the European Film Award; with "Toni Erdmann," she brought home the coveted statuette. After taking her last Berlinale bow in 2015 when her film "Women in Gold" was screening, Oscar winner Helen Mirren is back in Berlin as part of a 20-year partnership between the film festival and L'Oréal Paris. A committed crowd gathers in the winter freeze outside the Berlinale Palast to catch a glimpse of their favorite stars as they pose on the red carpet upon arrival for the opening screening of the 68th Berlin International Film Festival. Author: Stuart Braun