Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa officially applied for his country to re-join the Commonwealth almost 15 years after it left, the group said on Monday. Announcing the application in a statement posted on Twitter, the Commonwealth said Mnangagwa made the application in a letter sent on May 15. Commonwealth Secretary-General Patricia Scotland said in a statement that the member states "very much look forward to Zimbabwe's return when the conditions are right." "Zimbabwe's eventual return to the Commonwealth, following a successful membership application, would be a momentous occasion, given our shared rich history," Scotland said. Read more: Emmerson Mnangagwa: the Crocodile who snapped back Under former leader Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe left the voluntary grouping of mostly former British colonies in 2003. Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe since its independence in 1980, had been suspended by the group for violent and disputed elections as well as seizing land from white farmers which triggered a national economic collapse. Mnangagwa replaced Mugabe as leader following a de facto army coup last November. In November, Robert Mugabe dismissed his vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, after accusing him of "plotting a coup against the government." Some Zimbabweans feared Mugabe was grooming his wife, Grace Mugabe, to take over in the event of his death. On November 13, 2017, General Constantino Chiwenga, commander of Zimbabwe's Defense Force, warned that the army could "step in" to save the country from political tension and economic crisis. Military and armored vehicles were seen at the outskirts of Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, on November 14, 2017. On the same day, the military also took over the state-run broadcaster ZBC. On November 15, 2017, Major General SB Moyo, the military spokesman, announced on the ZBC that Mugabe and his family were "safe and sound and their security was guaranteed." He said the military was targeting "criminals around" Mugabe who were "committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering." On November 16, 2017, General Constantino Chiwenga, along with other officials, was seen in military uniform meeting President Robert Mugabe (C) at the State House. It was reported that Mugabe was smiling as they both shook hands. However, the leaders of ZANU-PF announced that there was "no going back." After being placed under house arrest, Mugabe appeared publicly at a university graduation ceremony on November 17, 2017. Here, a military officer adjusts a chair for Mugabe, who is dressed in a blue-and-yellow academic gown, to sit on after arriving to preside over the ceremony. Mugabe, who was reportedly tired, was then caught falling asleep. On November 18, 2017, residents of the capital, Harare, held a protest with anti-Mugabe placards demanding the president's resignation. Veterans of the independence war, activists and ruling party leaders called publicly for Mugabe to be forced from office. Zimbabwean War Veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa (R) arrived at a meeting of the ruling ZANU-PF party in Harare November 19, 2017. After hours of deliberation, the party announced that it had decided to fire Mugabe as leader of the party. Many expected that after being recalled as ZANU-PF party leader, President Mugabe would use his address to the nation resign with dignity. Zimbabweans were left shocked after the rambling speech made no reference to him stepping down. Mugabe now faces impeachment, with proceedings believed to be starting on Tuesday. Rather than face impeachment proceedings, Robert Mugabe prompted dancing in the streets of Harare when he resigned on November 22. "My decision to resign is voluntary on my part and arises from my concern for the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and my desire for a smooth, non-violent transfer of power," the 93-year-old said in a letter. Supporters of Emmerson Mnangagwa celebrate the end of four decades under Mugabe. Mnangagwa was joined by cheering crowds after he returned to Zimbabwe from exile in neighboring South Africa. He is expected to be sworn in on November 24. Author: Merga Yonas Bula Observers invited to election In the letter, Mnangagwa also invited Commonwealth officials to observe Zimbabwe's general elections which are due to take place in July. The presidential, parliamentary and council elections will be the southern African nation's first big democratic test. In order to become a member of the Commonwealth, Zimbabwe must show that it adheres to the group's core values including democracy and rule of law as well as the protection of human rights including freedom of expression, the group said in a statement. Read more: Zimbabwe marks 'new independence,' minus Mugabe The membership application process includes an informal assessment of the situation in Zimbabwe as well as consultations with other member states. If its application were to be accepted, Zimbabwe would be the fifth country to re-join the Commonwealth. The group is currently comprised of 53 countries, mainly former British colonies, representing 2.4 billion people. rs/rc   (AFP, Reuters) President-elect Emmerson Mnangagwa and his wife Auxillia returned to Harare on Wednesday from temporary exile in neighboring South Africa. The former vice president fled earlier in November when his power struggle with the former first lady, Grace Mugabe, came to a head and he was sacked by Zimbabwe's ex-President Robert Mugabe. Driving rain did not hinder tens of thousands of people from coming to the National Sports Stadium to witness the transition of power. Former President Mugabe's resignation on Wednesday prompted jubilant Zimbabweans to take to the streets of Harare in celebration. Members of Zimbabwe's judiciary arrive at the stadium to oversee the inauguration. Emmerson Mnangagwa takes over after a bloodless coup saw the end of strongman Mugabe's 37-year rule. Mnangagwa has been a mainstay of Zimbabwe's politics since the country's independence struggle against Great Britain in the 1970s and 80s, and also served as the country's spy chief. He was considered to be Mugabe's likely choice as sucessor until his ouster on November 6. Mnangagwa is considered to be popular with the army, who led the uprising against 93-year-old Mugabe last week. Military officials took over state broadcasters and government buildings, announcing that they sought to root out the "criminals" in Mugabe's inner circle. "I will be faithful to Zimbabwe and obey, uphold and defend the constitution and all other laws of Zimbabwe," Mnangagwa said before the country's chief justice. Robert Mugabe was not present at the inauguration, "given the hectic events of the past week-and-a-half," according to Zimbabwe's Herald newspaper. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.