German leaders gathered in Dusseldorf on Tuesday to honor the victims of the arson attack in the nearby community of Solingen, where right-wing extremists set fire to a home that left five Turkish women and girls dead on May 29, 1993. Read more: Germany remembers Solingen arson attack victims, 25 years on Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu traveled to Germany to attend the event alongside German Chancellor Angela Merkel, members of the Turkish-German community and Mevlude Genc, survivor and family member of the women and girls who perished. Angela Merkel spoke directly to survivor Mevlude Genc and thanked her for "responding with great humanity" to what was an "inhumane act." The German chancellor expressed her wish to ensure the safety of the Turkish community and all foreigners in the country. "I want those who come to Germany to feel safe and at home" Merkel said. Survivor Mevlude Genc, who lost two daughters, two granddaughters and a niece in the arson attack, has been outspoken in support of reconciliation and peaceful coexistence in the aftermath of the tragedy. Concerns about xenophobia today The gathering was meant to reinforce the message of unity against xenophobia. The attack became synonymous with anti-Turkish and anti-refugee sentiments in Germany in the 1990s, but its impact still lingers on today. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas expressed concerns that Turks living in Germany still faced hostility. "It is shameful that even today many who themselves or their parents and grandparents came to Germany from Turkey experience discrimination in their everyday lives," Maas said to German media on Tuesday. The Turkish Community in Germany (TGD) has called for a broad societal alliance to combat xenophobia. "Right-wing populist arguments are again dictating the public discourse about flight and migration," TGD chairman Gokay Sofuoglu said in Berlin. The attackers were four young men from the community, who had neo-Nazi leanings. They  were found guilty of murder and sentenced to prison. All served their sentences and have since been released. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yUXq jcg/rt (dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.