In this year's global ranking of press freedom, compiled by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), the Czech Republic has slipped eleven positions to place 34. Although the result may be better than that of Hungary and Poland, there are serious reasons for concern. Czech President Milos Zeman's presentation at a press conference last year has become symbolic of the new relationship between politics and the media in the Czech Republic. In front of running cameras he held speeches praising himself, while holding an imitation AK-47 rifle. In place of a cartridge chamber, the fake weapon had a bottle of his beloved herbal liqueur, Becherovka. But on the gun's shaft were the words: "na novinaru" – for the journalists. Read also: DW Director General on the imperative of press freedom ‘Idiots, crap and excrement' For the RSF, this "hard to imagine" incident in October was blatant proof that media freedom in the Czech Republic is under threat." In times of advancing populism, inciting hatred and contempt towards journalists is playing with fire. Unfortunately, we are also increasingly seeing this in EU member states," the current RSF report's authors wrote. It wasn't the first time Zeman had insulted journalists. Years ago, in an interview with the newspaper MF Dnes, he divided them into two groups: "journalistic prostitutes" on the one hand and "self-confident idiots" on the other. And he was even more derogatory when speaking on the private Czech television station, Prima, where he said, "Journalists are idiots, crap and excrement." Read more: After Jan Kuciak murder, killing journalists now 'within realm of possibility' Czech President Zeman has been openly hostile to journalists, including at his swearing-in ceremony When businesspeople turn politicians However, there is another, perhaps even more important reason for the Czech Republic's poor rating. According to this year's RSF report, "The level of concentration of media ownership has become critical since the new oligarchs began to buy daily newspapers thanks to their wealth in order to strengthen their influence." As an example, they name the current head of government, who owns "one of the Czech Republic's most influential newspapers." Andrej Babis is a Slovak native who lives in the Czech Republic and is the second-richest man in the country. He is the owner of the Agrofert food corporation and in 2013 took over the Mafra company from the Rheinisch-Bergische printing house and publishing group. This made him the owner of two important daily newspapers: Lidove noviny and MF Dnes. After then becoming deputy prime minister and finance minister, people christened him "Babisconi," a portmanteau referring to Italian politician and media mogul Berlusconi. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2x8At Read also: Opinion: Autocrats' stranglehold on the media But Babis was not the first Czech magnate to decide to get in on the media business. The forerunner was Zdenek Bakala, owner of the OKD and CMD coal mines in the country's northeast and also one of the country's richest people. Despite heavy losses in the coal business, he is still listed as number ten on the 2017 Forbes list of Czech billionaires. In 2006, he acquired the weekly publication Respekt, and in 2008 he bought the publishing house Economia from the Handelsblatt publishing group, as well as several periodicals. 'Babisconi': Billionaire businessman, media mogul and now prime minister Other Czech billionaires have also entered the media business. In 2014, the German-Swiss publishing house Ringier Axel Springer decided to leave the Czech Republic. The Czech News Center, a company half-owned by Daniel Kretinsky (the fifth-richest Czech) became the new owner of tabloids Blesk and Aha. A year later, the Passau publishing group sold its Czech business to Penta Investments, a company registered in Cyprus but owned by Czech billionaire Marek Dospiva (ninth place on the Forbes list). This meant that the last big newspaper, the daily Denik, published in countless local versions, also fell into a Czech oligarch's hands. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wcXu Bleak perspective But still, the Czech Republic remains in place 34 on RSF's ranking, far ahead of its Visegrad partners Poland (58) and Hungary (73), where the public media have with the policies of the ruling party. The hidden support of government-linked media through advertisements by state-owned enterprises has also attracted RSF's attention and explains the downward trend in press freedom. However, the changes that have been pushed through in Budapest and Warsaw can be reversed if there is a change of power in the capitals. But a change of government in Prague will have no influence on the ownership structure of the Czech media industry. And the concentration of media in the Czech Republic looks set to continue. Only two weeks ago, press agencies reported that Daniel Kretinsky's Czech Media Invest bought Czech, Polish and Romanian radio stations from the French media conglomerate, Lagardere, for 73 million euros. In the long term, the increasing concentration of Czech media could have far more negative consequences than the now very painful but quickly reversible arrangements in Poland or Hungary. He was beaten up by unknown attackers in the middle of a St. Petersburg street. On April 19, 2017, 73-year-old Nikolai Andruschtschenko succumbed to his injuries. The journalist wrote about human rights abuses and criminality. In his last documentation, he reported that President Vladimir Putin came to power through links with criminals and the KGB, the Soviet Union's main security agency. On March 23, 2017, a hired assassin executed Miroslava Breach in front of her house with eight shots to the head. The journalist reported on corruption and crime in the Mexican drug cartels. Her murderer left a message: "for the traitor." Breach is already the third journalist to have been killed in March in Mexico. Reporter Shifa Gardi died on February 25, 2017 when a mine exploded on the battle front in north Iraq. The Iranian-born Gardi worked for the Kurdish news agency in Erbil, Rudaw, and reported on the fighting between Iraqi troops and so-called Islamic State (IS) militants. IS terrorists around Mosul continue to kidnap, expel, or murder journalists. "Mukto-Mona," "Freethinkers," was the name of the Islam-critical blog from Avijit Roy. He called himself a "secular humanist," consequently evoking the wrath of Islamist extremists in Bangladesh. Roy was living in the US when in February 2015 he traveled to Dhaka's book trade fair. There, fanatics chopped him to pieces with machetes. Bloggers continue to be murdered by extremists in Bangladesh. Ten years imprisonment and 1,000 lashes of the whip: that was the Saudi internet activist's sentence. Raif Badawi has been in prison since 2012 for "insulting Islam." In January 2015 he was publically whipped for the first time. After a worldwide campaign for his release, the regime suspended his sentence. His wife Ensaf Haidar and children received asylum in Canada. Since 2008, Salijon Abdurakhmanov has been sitting in prison, sentenced for alleged drug possession on the basis of fake evidence. According to Reporters without Borders, the regime pushes drug connections onto its critics in order to muzzle them. Abdurakhmanov's "crime": writing for independent online media and other outlets about corruption, human rights and environmental destruction. German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel has been sitting in a Turkish prison since February 2017. The charges against the "Welt" correspondent: terror propaganda and hate speech. Authorities have not presented proof. Despite massive protest in Germany, Turkish President Erdogan announced he would never release Yucel. More than 140 media members have been imprisoned since the coup in July 2016. In China, regime-critical journalists, bloggers and activists are under great pressure. These include former DW colleague Gao Yu, who was arrested in 2014 before being sentenced in April 2015 to seven years in prison for the alleged betrayal of state secrets. After international pressure, she was allowed to leave prison and since then, has been serving the rest of her sentence under house arrest. He publishes a social-political internet magazine, in which he castigates corruption and human rights abuses. Mehman Huseynov is one of Azerbaijan's most popular video bloggers. His campaign, "Hunt for corrupt bureaucrats, blames the country's high-ranking leadership cadre for corruption. He was threatened multiple times and in March 2017 was sentenced to two years imprisonment for defamation. He was considered to be southern Europe's single political prisoner. Tomislav Kezarovski was inconvenient because he cited internal police reports and investigated the unresolved death of another journalist. In October 2013 in a questionable trial, he was sentenced to four-and-a-half year's imprisonment and upon appeal, to two year's house arrest. He is now writing a book about his time in jail. Author: Sabrina Pabst