Raids took place in four European countries early on Tuesday as part of the investigation into riots at the G20 summit in Hamburg last July. Hamburg police said the searches took place in Italy, Spain, Switzerland and France, where authorities were hunting a male suspect linked to the disorder. A European arrest warrant has been issued. In Switzerland, a 27-year-old man was arrested at his apartment near Zürich. Read more: Germany and G20 push for free trade amid fears of global trade war Stepped up cooperation German public broadcaster NDR reported that apartments in Rome, Genoa, and Madrid were among those searched, including properties linked to the left-wing scene. The raids were carried out with the support of several law enforcement agencies, and Eurojust — the European agency that deals with judicial cross-border cooperation. Police gave few other details about Tuesday's multi-nation operation, but earlier in the year, investigators said they had reason to believe that many of the militants behind the violent protests came from Italy and Spain. Raids were conducted in four European cities in the hunt for suspects linked to last July's violence at the Hamburg G20 summit Similar raids were carried out at several addresses in Germany last December, but while dozens of computers and mobile phones were seized, no arrests were made. The Hamburg G20 summit — a meeting of the world's 20 biggest industrial and emerging market nations — witnessed large anti-globalization protests in several locations around the city. This part of town was the scene of escalating violence. That did not come as a surprise: The quarter is traditionally the hub of Hamburg's leftist activists. It has been subject to gentrification, turning into a "hip" place to live and magnet for tourists. Police regained control over the streets of Hamburg in the early hours of the morning. Several shops were looted and damaged during the first day of protests. Black block protesters were throwing flares at police from behind street baracades. It took several hours for police to really push back in the early hours of Saturday morning. Fires were set in Hamburg streets and some cars were burned out. Protesters lit barricades on Friday evening. Throughout the city cars had been set on fire. Cars were burned and barricades set alight as a violent mob stepped up its actions, sidelining the majority of mainly peaceful protesters. Police blamed anarchists with the so-called Black Bloc movement for much of the violence. Black Bloc protesters wear all black and cover their faces to avoid being identified. Riot police disperse crowds with water cannon vehicles on Friday. Police use water against a woman after she climbed on top of an armoured carrier on Friday. Police chased protesters up a hill to gain control of the streets. A picture published on social media shows smoke rising from the streets during protests on Friday. Violent protests turned several neighborhoods where children usually play into scenes from a warzone. Three nights of riots Violence erupted over three nights, with dozens of buildings damaged, stores looted and vehicles set on fire. Around 200 police officers were injured in skirmishes with activists from far-left groups, dressed in dark clothing and face masks to hide their identity. Read more: G20: Hamburg police seek help to find 'Black Bloc' riot activists Authorities estimated that damage worth €12 million ($15 million) was caused by the violence that saw the participation of between 5-6,000 people. More than 400 people were arrested over the course of the three nights. A special task force has been combing through terabytes of police footage, CCTV recordings and private videos with the help of facial recognition software and geolocation data to track down the perpetrators. mm/rt (AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.