Israel has begun working on a barrier off the Mediterranean coast to prevent infiltrations by sea from the Gaza strip, the Israeli Defense Ministry said on Sunday. The "impenetrable" barrier is expected to be completed by the end of this year, more than four years after a group of Hamas militants managed to enter Israel by sea during the last Gaza war in 2014. "This is a unique obstacle that will effectively prevent the possibility of penetrating Israel by sea," Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman said in a statement. "This is another blow to Hamas, which will lose yet another strategic ability in which it invested vast amounts of money," he said. Read more: Little optimism in Middle East conflict, Israeli historian says The barrier is being built off the Zikim beach, a few kilometers north of Gaza. It is expected to be a fortified breakwater topped with barbed wire. The ministry did not provide any further details on the project. The sea fortification comes as Israel continues to secure its borders with reinforcements including an underground barrier meant to prevent infiltrations through tunnels. Tensions have worsened between Israel and the Palestinians in the aftermath of the US Embassy move to Jerusalem and the deaths of over 100 Palestinians by Israeli fire during mass protests along the Gaza border. Breaching naval blockade Separately, a coalition of protesters said on Sunday they would attempt to break Israel's naval blockade next Tuesday by sailing a protest boat beyond the designated fishing area. "We decided to take the initiative to lift the siege and emphasize the rights of our people," the coalition said. Israel restricts boats from Gaza sailing beyond a designated fishing zone that spans 6 nautical miles (11 kilometers, 7 miles). Israeli border guards have previously shot at Gazans on fishing vessels to enforce the naval blockade. ap/jm (AFP, dpa) According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, won Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. The Roman Empire ruled Jerusalem from the year 63 AD. Resistance movements rapidly formed among the population, so that in 66 AD, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and another destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately 600 years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 AD. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 AD onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II called for the First Crusade, which took Jerusalem in 1099 AD. Over a period of 200 years a total of nine crusades set out to conquer the city as it changed hands between Muslim and Christian rule. In 1244 AD the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again became Muslim. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535 AD. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917 AD, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.