Belgium should show "generosity" to British employees of the European Union who want to become Belgian citizens after the United Kingdom leaves the bloc, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker told Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel on Thursday. During a debate in the European Parliament in Brussels, the Belgian capital, Juncker praised the country's "great hospitality and generosity" in hosting EU offices. "I would also like the Belgian authorities to demonstrate the same generosity when it comes to conferring Belgian nationality on the British officials who are here in Brussels," he added. Read more: Juncker: EU hopes UK will rejoin bloc after Brexit 'They deserve it' The nearly 1,000 British nationals working at the 32,000-strong Commission are set to lose their EU citizenship when Brexit occurs in March 2019. Juncker promised in April that British officials will still keep their jobs after that date. May became prime minister after David Cameron resigned from the post in the wake of the Brexit referendum vote in June 2016. Despite her position, she has struggled to define what kind of Brexit her government wants. Hardliners within her Conservative party want her to push for a clean break. Others want Britain to stay close to the bloc. The EU itself has rejected many of May's Brexit demands. The leader of the British Labour Party has no formal role in the Brexit talks, but he is influential as the head of the main opposition party. Labour has tried to pressure the Conservative government, which has a thin majority in Parliament, to seek a "softer" Brexit. But Corbyn's own advocacy has been lukewarm. The long-time leftist voted for the UK to leave the European Community (EC) in 1975. David Davis heads Britain's Department for Exiting the EU and is the country's chief negotiator in the talks. The senior Conservative campaigned to leave the bloc and is considered one of the hardliners — dubbed "Brexiteers" — in May's Cabinet. Davis has been involved in several negotiating rounds with his EU counterpart, Michel Barnier, where he usually strikes an upbeat tone. The UK foreign secretary and former mayor of London was the face of the Leave campaign during the 2016 EU referendum. His outspoken advocacy for a hard Brexit has since put him at odds with colleagues who want a softer Brexit. Johnson's post allows him to influence the government's Brexit policy. He is also popular among the pro-Brexit public, making him influential in public debates as well. Nigel Farage was the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) until July 2016. Under his stewardship, the party helped pressure former Prime Minister David Cameron into calling the EU referendum. He was also a prominent activist in the Leave campaign in the lead-up to the vote. Farage still has some influence over Brexit talks due to his popularity with pro-Leave voters. EU Commission President Juncker (left) and EU Council President Tusk (right) share two of the bloc's highest posts. Juncker heads the EU's executive. Tusk represents the governments of the 27 EU countries — the "EU 27." Both help formulate the EU's position in Brexit negotiations. What Tusk says is particularly noteworthy: His EU 27 masters — not the EU commission — must agree to any Brexit deal. The former French foreign minister and European commissioner has become a household name across the EU since his appointment as the bloc's chief Brexit negotiator in October 2016. Despite his prominence, Barnier has limited room to maneuver. He is tasked with following the EU 27's strict guidelines and must regularly report back to them during the negotiations. The Irish PM has been one of the most important EU 27 leaders in Brexit talks. Britain has said it will leave the EU's customs union and single market. That could force the Republic of Ireland, an EU member, to put up customs checks along the border with Northern Ireland, a British province. But Varadkar's government has repeatedly said the return of a "hard" border is unacceptable. The leaders of the EU 27 governments have primarily set the EU's negotiating position. They have agreed to the negotiating guidelines for chief negotiator Barnier and have helped craft the common EU position for Tusk and Juncker to stick to. The individual EU 27 governments can also influence the shape of any Brexit outcome because they must unanimously agree to a final deal. Author: Alexander Pearson Speaking in the European Parliament, Juncker said of British staffers seeking Belgian citizenship: "They deserve it. They deserve it." He added that Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel, who was also in the parliament, "is sometimes extremely generous." Michel said in reply that he was "happy that Belgian citizenship is so attractive," but added that it was difficult for Belgian authorities to tackle citizenship applications amid "contradictory jurisprudence." Read more: Amsterdam court to rule on whether Brits retain EU citizenship Belgium is on it Belgium allows foreigners to apply for citizenship after five years of living in the country. But authorities have dismissed some applications by British EU officials who have met that criteria because EU staffers are considered quasi-diplomats under Belgian tax laws. Michel nonetheless assured Juncker that his government would look into the issue. Read more: Brexit survival guide for Brits in Europe After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. The former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline splits talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2. Talks will now focus on a transition period and the future trading relationship between the two sides. While the Britain's Theresa May expressed her delight, European Council President Donald Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks will be "dramatically difficult." Author: Alexander Pearson amp/sms(AP, Reuters, dpa)