DW: You're the first British citizen of Afghan origin who won a London borough council seat. How do you feel about this achievement? Peymana Assad: It's an important milestone because prior to my election, nobody from an Afghan background had been elected to any public office in Britain. It demonstrates that the Afghan community in Britain can actively participate in politics and can have a say in their local governments. It also proves the greatness of UK's democracy and its true political spirit. Britain is not perfect, and it has its own problems, but here you can run for public office regardless of your religious or ethnic background. I would like to tell young people from different religious and ethnic backgrounds that if I can achieve something like this, I believe they can do the same. I want them to believe in themselves because I believe in them. Read more: Muslim radicalization in Britain: Countering the extremists' rationale Brexit: Why South Asian students are looking forward to it In the Western world, traditional Afghan clothing is often associated with war - images of Islamist fighters donning turbans, drooping cloaks. But the attire is basically part of the rich Afghan culture. In his latest Amsterdam show, "Rise from the Ashes," Afghan-Dutch designer Nawed Elias attempted to alter the Western perception. Elias has showcased his designs in many countries around the world. His label "Zazai" pays tribute to his love for his home nation and his cultural roots. Elias (front) was born in Afghanistan in 1993. At the time, a deadly civil war had already begun in the country, with different groups of mujahideen (Islamic warriors) vying for control over Kabul following the Soviet withdrawal from the country. Elias vividly remembers the sounds and images of that war, and these memories shape his designs. Inspired by various regions of Afghanistan, Zazai's designs, colors and patterns are a blend of modernity and tradition. They carry a distinct signature style that is influenced by Western culture. Before his models walk the runway, Elias makes sure that all details are taken care of. Elias works meticulously with every model individually to prepare them for the show – to present his vision to his audience in the best possible manner. Elias' fashion shows are more than just models doing a catwalk on the ramp. For instance, the choreography for his "Rise from the Ashes" show carefully depicts the history of Afghanistan, a country ravaged by war and bomb attacks. In this picture, he shows an image of Afghanistan that is chained to violence. The Afghan-Dutch designer believes that youth are the future of Afghanistan. "I want to give youngsters an alternative view," he told DW. "Young Afghans shouldn't blindly follow their leaders," he added. In this picture, a model is carrying a young child, through whom Elias wants to present a ray of hope. Elias has been living abroad for a long period of time but he has strong political views about Afghanistan. He criticizes Afghan politics, warlords and corruption through his work. "Of course I am political. And I'm not shy to express my political views through my work," he said. Author: Waslat Hasrat-Nazimi Xenophobic sentiments are on the rise in Britain. Are you concerned about it? I'm concerned that far-right views are becoming part of mainstream British politics; they are being expressed by some British politicians also. But I know that there are politicians, civil society organizations and trade unions in this country that are resisting this hateful rhetoric. People are determined to make sure these views are not normalized in British society. As long as there are people who stand for open and diverse communities in Britain, I think we will be fine. How are you planning to counter xenophobic attacks in your borough? I'm proud to say that the London Borough of Harrow is one of the most diverse boroughs in the country. We have people from diverse communities, from many parts of the world, from South Asia to Eastern Europe. Many years ago, when the English Defence League protested against the Harrow Central Mosque, people from different communities in our borough rallied together in support of the mosque. I believe that elected local government councilors across Harrow have the responsibility to unite their communities and pay heed to their opinions. Nobody should feel left out. Read more: Mass deportation of rejected Afghan asylum seekers from Germany imminent: report Are you working on any specific issues these days? I am focusing on community safety. Roxeth, South Harrow, has seen a surge in gun crime, knife attacks and robbery. The residents don't feel safe walking home with their kids. The high level of crime in Harrow is having an impact on the young people's lives. They are being recruited into gangs. I want this to stop. The interview was conducted by Waslat Hasrat-Nazimi. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ei8e