Pakistan's Interior Minister Ahsan Iqbal survived a suspected assassination attempt on Sunday when he was shot by a man after a public meeting in Punjab province. The attack is likely to heighten political tensions in Pakistan as it gears up for federal elections expected later this year. Read more: Ahead of elections, Pakistan heads toward more political chaos What we know so far Read more: Pakistan court disqualifies Foreign Minister Khawaja Asif for breaking election laws Widespread condemnation Senator Raja Zafar Ul Haq, chairman of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) party, condemned the attack on Iqbal. "We need to revisit and redefine our security policies," Haq told DW's correspondent in Islamabad, Shah Meer Baloch. Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi "strongly condemned" the attack on Iqbal and has sought an immediate report from Punjab's police chief. Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif tweeted: "Strongly condemn the assassination attempt on my friend Ahsan Iqbal... Just spoke to him & he is in high spirits." Opposition Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party (PTI) chief and former cricket star Imran Khan also condemned the attack. Read more: Pakistan's Hazara standoff: why did the army mediate? Series of blows: The attack on Iqbal, a senior member of the ruling party, comes at a time his party is trying revitalize its supporters after a series of blows to its top leadership, including the disqualification of deposed Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif from ever holding office. While condemning the attack, Mir Hasil Khan Bizenjo, the minister of maritime affairs and head of the National Party, suggested that "religious extremists could be behind the attack on Ahsan Iqbal." "This attack is a warning to Pakistan's democratic forces ahead of the general election this year," Bizenjo told DW. Read more: Opinion: Pakistan needs ex-PM Sharif's political role now more than ever Who is Ahsan Iqbal: The interior minister is a staunch supporter of Sharif. A US-educated lawmaker from a political family long associated with the PML-N party, Iqbal was one of the contenders for the prime minister's job when Sharif was ousted last July. Federal elections: Political parties in Pakistan are gearing up for federal elections, which are widely expected to be held in July. ap/aw (Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.