Even though the country has been largely cut off from the western world since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, a growing number of people are interested in Iran's history, culture, cuisine — and film. The country's rich cinema tradition, which dates back to the beginning of the 20th century, continues to build on its strong reputation, with Iranian directors repeatedly winning major prizes in international film festivals —  Jafar Panahi's "Taxi," for instance, won the Golden Bear in Berlin in 2015. Despite dealing with government restrictions, Iranian filmmakers continue to create powerful and very personal stories that feel universal. Read more: Road movie against patriarchy: Jafar Panahi's Three Faces in Cannes Revealing unknown aspects of Iran The Visions of Iran film festival held in Cologne has been showcasing the country's best cinema since 2013. "The heart of Iranian cinema is its special perspective on social conditions," festival director Amin Farzanefar told DW. The film festival Visions of Iran takes place from May 31 to June 3 at the Filmforum NRW in Cologne The focus of Visions of Iran this year is documentary film. "Iranian documentaries are particularly strong when they work directly with the protagonists," said Farzanefar, who strongly values young talent and aims to address a wide variety of topics with his program. "What is the social reality of Iran today? What are its contradictions? Which aspects of it are entertaining?" are some of the questions the films on show will answer, Farzanefar said. Panel discussions and film Q&As will also allow festival-goers to more deeply explore these questions about Iran. An old master — and a tragic anniversary In addition to the Karestan series that focuses on different entrepreneurs who aim to improve social and environmental conditions in Iran, the festival will also screen 24 Frames, the last film by master director Abbas Kiarostami's before his death in 2016 that bridges his cinematic and photographic work. This year's festival also commemorates a tragic chapter of the Iran-Iraq war, with two films and a documentary portraying the Iraqi poison gas attack on the Kurdish city of Halabja that killed 2,000 people in 1988. This also means challenging perceptions. Feminist issues are less the focus of the exhibition than a questioning of the relationship between body and space. The works especially deal with the exploitation of history and identity in a globalized world. Libya-based multimedia artist Arwa Arboun breaks with traditional image motifs and chooses a very personal approach. For the diptych "I'm sorry/I forgive you," she portrays her parents in two photographs that reverse the power relations between the sexes. While living in Lebanon, the artist examines the relationship between individual stories and collective history. Launched in 2002, the "Objects of War" series explores the possibilities in visual representations of the Lebanese civil war. In addition, Joreige shows print stills from Marta Herford's 2006 essay film, "Nights and Days," produced during the war in Lebanon. "Silsala" (connection) is a photography project by Sama Alshaibi that is inspired by the expeditions of the 14th century Moroccan scholar, Ibn Battuta. The US-based Iraqi-Palestinian artist took the images while traveling to various desert regions and oases in the Middle East and North Africa over seven years. "The desert is an interesting metaphor for modern society," she says. Saba Innabs works express the complex situation of stateless Palestinians. On a wall that brutally separates the exhibition space in two parts, one can see a delicate abstract line, retracing the Jordanian, Syrian, Lebanese and Egyptian border with Palestine - seen from the opposite side of Palestine. To dwell (arabic. "sakan") seems impossible without limits. For her short film, "Hors-je," the Tunisian artist worked with children in Ettadhamen City in the capital, Tusis. "This is a neighborhood from which many jihadists go to fight in Syria after they were radicalized or became criminals," said Fedhila. "I try to offer an alternative viewpoint. It's about participation, the core of democracy. I believe in the transformative power of art. " The versatile work of Lebanese artist Mounira Al Solh can currently be seen at Documenta in Kassel and Athens, while in 2015 it was displayed at the Venice Biennale. The artist, who lives in Holland, makes videos and video installations, drawings and paintings, embroidery and performances. Author: Julia Hitz