US President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe agreed on Monday to closely cooperate in the runup to an "expected summit" between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. During a phone conversation, Trump and Abe said they agreed on the importance of "complete and permanent dismantlement of North Korea's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and ballistic missile programs," according a White House statement. Without giving details, the statement said the two leaders had also pledged to meet before the US-North Korea summit. Trump and Abe could meet on the sidelines of the Group of Seven summit both are expected to attend in Quebec, Canada, in early June. Read more: North Korea denuclearization: Can Pyongyang be trusted? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yQpy On, off, and on again? Trump abruptly called off the planned June 12 summit with Kim in Singapore on Thursday, citing the "tremendous anger and open hostility" of North Korean officials earlier that week. The president has since voiced support for attending the summit after South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Saturday that Kim still wanted it to take place. Trump's new-found eagerness to show up in Singapore was evident in preparatory meetings between US and North Korean officials on Sunday near the demilitarized zone. US officials also discussed preparations with their Singaporean counterparts that same day. Read more: Trump's North Korea gamble has backfired Flurry of diplomacy Senior North Korean official Kim Yong Chol was reportedly on the passenger list for a flight to the United States Wednesday. The former spy chief would be the most senior North Korean official to visit the US in 18 years. Trump said on Twitter Kim Yong Chol was headed to New York. Choe Kang Il, a North Korean foreign ministry official involved with North America issues, was also spotted at a Beijing airport, according to South Korea's Yonhap news agency. It did not say whether Choe would be accompanying Kim Yong Chol, who is said to hold talks with Chinese officials before his US visit. Kim Yong Chol has played a major role in the recent thaw in North Korea's relations with the South and the US. He joined Kim Jong Un in both his meetings the South Korean president in April and May. He also hosted US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo when he visited Pyongyang earlier this month. Meanwhile, the North Korean leader's de facto chief of staff, Kim Chang Son, was reported to have flown to Singapore via Beijing on Monday night. At the same time, a "pre-advance" team was headed to Singapore to meet with North Koreans, the White House said. Nuclear sticking points Pyongyang first tested a nuclear weapon in 2006 and has since developed ballistic missiles capable of striking the US mainland. The US and its regional allies, including Japan, have repeatedly demanded that North Korea, which has largely been cut off from the global economic system, renounce its nuclear weapons in exchange for economic relief. Kim has reportedly told Moon the North is committed to a "complete denuclearization of the Korean peninsula," but experts are skeptical the US would agree to remove its nuclear weapons from South Korea as part of any final deal. Previous negotiations between North Korea and the US failed after Pyongyang demanded Washington withdraw its soldiers from South Korea and rescind its pledge to defend the South and Japan with its own nuclear weapons. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said in his New Year’s address that his country was in the "final stages" of launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). US President-elect Donald Trump, whose inauguration was set for January 20, said on Twitter: "North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the US. It won't happen!" North Korea tested its first ICBM — the Hwasong-14 — on US Independence Day. Kim reportedly told his scientists that "the US would be displeased" by the launch. This, he said, was because "it was given a 'package of gifts' ... on its 'Independence Day.'" Trump wrote on Twitter in response: "North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?" Pyongyang tested its second Hwasong-14 weeks later. Experts estimated the new rocket could reach the US mainland. Trump lashed out at North Korean ally China, writing in a Tweet: "I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk." Trump appeared to threaten swift military action against Pyongyang when he told reporters: "North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen." North Korea responded by threatening to fire a medium-range ballistic missile into the waters around Guam, a US territory in the Pacific Ocean. It did not follow through. Pyongyang sparked international outcry when it test-launched a mid-range ballistic missile — the Hwasong-12 — over Japan. The UN Security Council unanimously condemned the test. Trump said in a White House statement: "Threatening and destabilizing actions only increase the North Korean regime’s isolation in the region and among all nations of the world. All options are on the table." North Korea announced it had successfully tested its sixth nuclear weapon. Pyongyang said it was a powerful type of nuclear weapon called a hydrogen bomb and that it could be placed on top of a ballistic missile. Trump wrote on Twitter: "The United States is considering, in addition to other options, stopping all trade with any country doing business with North Korea." In his first speech at the United Nations, Trump called North Korea a "rogue state" and said Washington "will have no choice than to totally destroy North Korea" if Pyongyang failed to stop its nuclear weapons program. Referring to Kim, he added: "Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime." Kim called Trump a "mentally-deranged US dotard" two days later. North Korea test-fired its third ICBM of 2017. Pyongyang claimed it was a new missile, the Hwasong-15, which was superior to the Hwasong-14 and could hit any target on the US mainland. The US urged allies, including Germany, to break diplomatic ties with North Korea. Berlin ignored the call. Trump also called Kim a "sick puppy." Kim said in his 2018 New Year's address that the North had completed its nuclear weapons program and that a "nuclear button" was on his desk at all times. Trump wrote two days later on Twitter: "Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" South Korean President Moon Jae-in welcomed Kim's sister, Kim Yo Jong, at the presidential house in the South Korean capital. She handed a letter to Moon inviting him to meet the North Korean leader in Pyongyang. Tensions appeared to be thawing. Seoul and Pyongyang had already agreed to send a unified hockey team to compete at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. South Korean National Security Adviser Chung Eui-yong led a delegation on March 5 to Pyongyang to discuss the potential for peace talks. The next day, Chung said both sides had agreed to hold a joint summit in April and set up a telephone hotline between the two capitals. He also said Pyongyang would agree to stop its nuclear weapons and missile tests if the US agreed to hold talks with the North. Chung flew on to Washington, D.C. to speak with Trump. After the meeting, Chung told reporters the US president had agreed to meet Kim by May. Trump later wrote on Twitter: "no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!" Foreign leaders welcomed the historic breakthrough. A week before the scheduled meeting at the border between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, Moon said North Korea wanted "an end to the hostile relations" and had expressed a commitment to "complete denuclearization" of the peninsula. The next day, the telephone hotline was connected for the first time since February 2016, so Moon and Kim could talk directly. Kim announced North Korea would stop nuclear and missile tests. Kim said: "We no longer need any nuclear test or test launches of intermediate and intercontinental range ballistic missiles, and because of this the northern nuclear test site has finished its mission." However, no mention was made of its stored nuclear materials and equipment. Kim and Moon Jae-in meet in the border town of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that has divided the two Koreas since the Korean War in 1953. The two leaders vowed to work towards a nuclear-free Korea and pledged an end to war. It was the first time a North Korean leader had set foot across the border since the 1950s and paves the diplomatic way for a Trump-Kim meeting in May or June. South Korea announces its propaganda loudspeakers are to be switched off for good. They had been silenced temporarily ahead of the inter-Korean summit, which prompted the North to halt its broadcasts, too. Pyongyang also said it would adjust its time zone to that of the South as a symbolic gesture. North Korea has been half an hour behind the South since 2015. After North Korea slammed US Vice President Mike Pence for comparing North Korea and Libya, Donald Trump abruptly canceled the summit. Trump said the move was due to "tremendous anger and open hostility" displayed by Pyongyang. Author: Alexander Pearson, Nicole Goebel amp/cmk (AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's news and feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here.