Nearly eight months after reports of sexual abuse allegations surfaced against the ex-film producer, Harvey Weinstein surrendered to authorities at a New York Police station on Friday and was charged with rape and other sex crimes involving two women. The wave of assault accusations against Weinstein triggered a global #MeToo movement with people working in several industries coming forward with stories of sexual harassment, assault and rape against well-known figures. What we know so far: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rTQ5 Dozens of allegations: Over 75 women around the globe — including actors Angelina Jolie, Rose McGowan and Ashley Judd,  have accused Weinstein of abuse ranging from sexual harassment to rape. Many of the cases have passed the statute of limitations and can no longer be prosecuted. #MeToo movement: Accusations against Weinstein were reported on October 5 last year by the New York Times and the New Yorker. The reports about Weinstein's misconduct helped give rise to the #MeToo movement of survivors publicly coming forward with stories of sexual harassment and assault in business, politics, media, sports and entertainment. In 1997, upcomer Ashley Judd was invited to meet star-maker Harvey Weinstein at an LA hotel, whereupon he tried to coerce her into bed. Judd escaped but refused to be silenced. Many in Hollywood then said the producer's sexual misconduct was an "open secret." "There wasn't a place for us to report these experiences," said Judd, the first to call out Weinstein in the New York Times in October. When actor Rose McGowan first told people that Harvey Weinstein had raped her, she says some in Hollywood threatened to end her career. "They threatened [me] with being blacklisted. I was blacklisted after I was raped, because I got raped, because I said something," she said in a January interview first published in the Observer. But that didn't stop her from later speaking out. When Taylor Swift alleged that Denver radio DJ David Mueller reached under her skirt and groped her, he took her to court after it lead to his firing. "I'm not going to let you or your client make me feel in any way that this is my fault," she told his lawyer. Swift also told Time magazine that if Mueller was "brazen enough to assault me... imagine what he might do to a vulnerable, young artist." Blair claims that writer/director James Toback invited her to his room and asked her to remove her clothing while she read a script before asking her for sex. When she refused, he blocked her way and masturbated against her leg. He then threatened to kill her if she dared to talk. "I didn't want to speak up because, it sounds crazy but, even until now, I have been scared for my life," said Blair. "Me Too" was first used in 2006 by gender equality activist Tarana Burke as a rallying cry for young sexual harassment and assault survivors. Actor Alyssa Milano was sent a screenshot of the phrase in October and later tweeted: "If you've been sexually harassed or assaulted write 'me too' as a reply to this tweet." She woke to find that over 30,000 people had used #MeToo and burst into tears. After Bill O'Reilly and Fox News spent millions on lawyers to settle, and silence, sexual harassment claims, Wendy Walsh, a psychologist and Fox contributor spoke out about O'Reilly after initial reluctance for fear of retaliation. "I felt it was my duty," Walsh told Time, "as a mother of daughters, as an act of love for women everywhere and the women who are silenced, to be brave." TV news anchor Megyn Kelly has accused Fox host Bill O'Reilly of sexual harassment. "What if we did complain?" she said to Time, "if we spoke our truth in our strongest voices? What if that worked to change reality right now?" Perhaps that change has already started to come. "I always thought maybe things could change for my daughter," said Kelly. "I never thought things could change for me." An Uber engineer, Fowler felt powerless with "a harasser in the White House" and decided to out sexual harassers at Uber in a blog post. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick was subsequently forced to resign and 20-odd employees were fired. "There's something really empowering about standing up for what's right," said Fowler, who has been described as a whistle-blower — which she calls "a badge of honor." The actor and former American football star is one of a number of men who have said "me too." Crews has taken out a sexual assault lawsuit against talent agent Adam Venit, who he accuses of groping him at a party in Hollywood in February 2016. Also among Time's Silence Breakers is actor Blaise Godbe Lipman, who's accused talent agent Tyler Grasham of sexually assaulting him when he was a teenager. Author: Stuart Braun Disgraced mogul: Weinstein has repeatedly denied accusations of non-consensual sex. Powerful players in the entertainment industry have distanced themselves from him after the accusations became public. The board of his production company, The Weinstein Co., fired him and later filed for bankruptcy in March. Legal documents filed this year showed that employees at The Weinstein Co. were told to prepare rooms for his sexual encounters and clean them up afterwards. What happens next: Weintein was released on $1 million bail with constant electronic moniotring and a ban on traveling beyond New York and Connecticut. His lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, said he would fight to get the charges dismissed. Weinstein is also being investigated by police in Los Angeles and London on criminal sex charges. Brafman said Weinstein "did not invent the casting couch in Hollywood, and to the extent that there is bad behavior in that industry, that is not what this is about." He has until Wednesday to decide whether to testify before a grand jury. rs/jm (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2oRTt