Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull welcomed Macron Tuesday in Sydney, emphasizing the two nations' shared sacrifices in trench warfare against then-imperial Germany during World War One. Turnbull had been in France last week for commemorations. Macron arrived fresh from a high-profile visit to Washington, prior to a matching US visit by German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Submarine deal for South Pacific, Indian oceans Macron, traveling with French military and naval contractors, said on arrival in Sydney that France - a UN veto power - wanted to be an "even stronger partner" under a deal to build and maintain a new fleet of diesel-electric submarines for Australia's navy. The first Barracuda-class submarine is due to be launched in 2027. Read more: French, Australian submarine deal In 2016, Turnbull's government handed France's majority state-owned Naval Group (formerly DCNS) the €31-billion- ($38-billion-) deal in 2016 to build 12 submarines in Australia's southern port city of Adelaide. To win the contract, Naval beat competing submarine supply bids from Germany and Japan. December 2016: Turnbull (second from right) during the Adelaide site's opening 'Ensuring security' in vast Indian and Pacific oceans Macron's office added that France considered Australia a key partner in ensuring maritime security in the Indian and Pacific, given China's expanding power. Macron, during his three-day visit, will also focus on climate change and its impacts on coral reefs – exemplified by die-off along Australia's Great Barrier Reef - Pacific island states, such as Tuvalu, facing sea-level rises. June 2017: French elections included Noumea, New Caledonia New Caledonia and French Polynesia, including Tahiti, are two prominent French overseas territories in the vast South Pacific, where France has some 8,000 military personnel based. In 1998, New Caledonia's indigenous communities and Paris entered into a special power-sharing arrangement spanning a 20-year time frame. Nuclear testing, French Polynesia Mururoa, an remote atoll 1,250 kilometers (780 miles) southeast of Tahiti, was where France conducted extensive nuclear testing between 1966 until 1996. Its testing was strongly opposed by environmental groups, notably Greenpeace, and New Zealand, which in the 1980s declared its waters nuclear-free, falling offside with its long-time ally the United States. In 1986, 13 nations, including Australia, New Zealand and a swathe of Pacific island states, adopted the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty. ipj/rc (dpa, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.