Malaysia set up a task force on Monday to probe allegations that billions of dollars were looted from the nation's sovereign wealth fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad  also known as 1MDB. Officials allege it was a massive system of theft and fraud overseen by ousted ex-leader Najib Razak. Newly elected Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad led a reformist alliance to a surprise victory at the May 9 polls over Najib's coalition, which had governed Malaysia uninterrupted for over six decades. Their success in ousting Najib's coalition was fueled by public disgust at allegations of endemic corruption among the country's ruling elite, and in particular a massive scandal surrounding 1MDB. The state fund was set up in 2009 ostensibly to promote the development of the Malaysian economy. However it is alleged that Najib, his family and cronies looted the investment vehicle in a massive fraud that stretched from the Cayman Islands to New York. The stolen funds were used to purchase everything from real estate to artworks. Mahathir first served as premier from 1981-2003 and came out of retirement to take on corruption-mired Najib. His campaign pledged to reopen probes into 1MDB. Task force takes shape The head of the special task force is Abdul Gani Patail, the former attorney general who was removed from his post in 2015 while leading investigations into 1MDB. The task force will be charged with finding and taking back assets as well as pursuing legal action against those suspected of breaking the law in relation to the fund, said the prime minister's office. "The government hopes the setting up of this task force, comprising a multi-agency enforcement unit, will help restore the dignity of Malaysia that has been tainted by the 1MDB kleptocracy scandal," the office said in a statement. The task force will consist of representatives of the anti-graft agency, the police and the attorney general's office, as well as members of a previous task force set up under Najib but disbanded as speculation mounted that he would be charged. The force will also reach out to law enforcement agencies in other countries, including the US, Switzerland, Singapore and Canada, according to a statement from Mahathir's office. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1JT92 Vast sums of money from the fund are believed to have been funneled round the world in a complex web of transactions. Najib and 1MDB have consistently denied any wrongdoing. Earlier this month police launched raids on properties linked to Najib as they investigate the fraud. Authorities seized a huge stash of handbags and suitcases stuffed with cash, but Najib insisted at the weekend he had not stolen public money. Jewelry, watches and designer handbags filled with cash seized by police Crusading journalist back in Malaysia The announcement of the task force comes just days after exiled journalist Clare Rewcastle-Brown was allowed to return to Malaysia. Rewcastle-Brown published details of the alleged transfer of $681 million (578 million euros) from 1MDB to bank accounts held by Najib Razak. Malaysian authorities issued a warrant for her arrest in 2015, citing activities "detrimental to parliamentary democracy."  Sarawak Report and Medium.com, a blogging platform which hosted her site, were also blocked in the country. She returned to Malaysia after learning that the sites had been unblocked and the warrant dismissed by the new government led Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad. av/kms (Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.