Protesters organized by the Left party, communists and peace activists were on hand to offer token opposition to some 2,050 US military vehicles, in 102 convoys, rumbling through the flat, sleepy country roads in the eastern German state of Brandenburg on their way to Poland. The troop movements, which will likely inconvenience a few motorists until mid-June, are part of the vast and indefinite NATO operation Atlantic Resolve, which is meant to reinforce the alliance's borders in eastern Europe. While the military purpose of this exercise is open to debate, given that Russian forces across the border are much larger, NATO showing its commitment to its smaller members in the east is considered vital. Atlantic Resolve was launched in response to Russia's annexation of Crimea and the war in Donbass in 2014. Read more: NATO in a nutshell Eastern German skepticism The US Army is aware this part of their journey might be potentially prickly — particularly in eastern Germany where some are still sensitive about a massive US presence on their doorsteps. Brandenburg's state premier, Dietmar Woidke, of the Social Democratic Party, signaled some consternation earlier this year when he was quoted in the press as saying, "I think that it doesn't help us in the long run if tanks drive up and down both sides of the border." Read more: Is NATO doing enough to pressure Russia over Ukraine? On Monday, Brandenburg government spokesman Florian Engels offered a more diplomatic statement. "The Brandenburg state government fundamentally has a clear commitment to NATO and the alliance's responsibilities," he told DW in an email. "But we need more dialogue with Moscow. That is the right path." The US said it was aiming for complete transparency in its operations, saying it had "nothing to hide." "Our aim is absolute transparency," US Col. William S. Galbraith said at a mid-May joint press conference with a German military commander. "We're practicing, for example, how troop movements could be conducted in an emergency." Still, one of Woidke's Cabinet members, Labor and Social Affairs Minister Diana Golze of the socialist Left party, joined her party's small but noisy demonstration on Monday outside a German military barracks near Brück, Brandenburg. The protest attracted a group of around 50 people, representing a mix of leftist organizations — some considerably further left than the Left party, such as the German Communist Party (DKP) — as well as a few inhabitants of the surrounding eastern German towns. Read more: Global military spending rose to $1.7 trillion in 2017 'The Russians never meant us any harm' "We called this demonstration because we don't want to get used to these exercises here in Brandenburg. We didn't want them just to pass by without any opposition," Golze told DW. "We think this isn't a good time for the relocation of troops to the border between Poland and Russia. We need to think about how to get out of this spiral of violent escalation. There needs to be a diplomatic path, and not just saber-rattling." Waltraud Plarre, a scientist from nearby Lehnin, explained Germans' conflicted feelings about Russia, which imbue the current anger against NATO with Cold War-era suspicions about superpower manipulation. For many who grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic, the USSR is chiefly remembered as the power that liberated Germany from Nazism. Some protesters weren't afraid to deploy the mildly pejorative German term for Americans "The feeling that many from the west don't understand is that the people in the east say: The Russians never did us any harm," she said, holding a banner that read "Amis go home," using Germans' mildly pejorative term for Americans. "We never experienced the Russians having evil intentions. And now trying to stir us all up against each other is not in the interests of German people — neither the people in the west or the east. There are other powers behind this that want us to fight each other." Those feelings weren't exactly shared by the immediate locals living in the communist-era housing blocks next to the protest. A handful had brought plastic chairs out into the sun to watch, in equal parts amusement and irritation, as the leftists made speeches and sang songs. It made a change from the multinational military transports rolling past their doorsteps and the artillery fire from the Bundeswehr barracks, which they'd long since grown used to. "I'm more bothered by the protest, to be honest," one woman said as the distant gunfire was partially drowned out by an amplified acoustic set by a young folk singer beneath a giant image of a dove. "What's the point of all this? For me, Putin is a threat. If he's such a nice guy how come he used to be in the KGB?" Modest protest It was clear that the police considered the event a fairly modest protest — and as it petered out after barely 90 minutes, some demonstrators grew annoyed — mainly with what they considered the Left party's half-hearted mobilization efforts. Protesters had hoped for a larger turnout "Where are they all? They had one bus, for 15 people!" complained Falko Hartmann bitterly. "There are more people here from the peace movement than from the Left party." Hartmann, part of a charity that helps victims of the war in Donbass, said he considers Kyiv the aggressors in the Ukraine conflict. "We've been there under fire ourselves and we know where the grenades come from," he told DW. "Of course, neither side is doing everything right, but the biggest provocations are clearly coming from the Ukrainian side." Then he looked around at the rapidly emptying field behind him. "I'm here to stop the madness of American soldiers being sent to the Russian border, but apparently hardly anyone is interested around here," he said. "This was pure PR. We'll never get anything done this way."