Thomas Tuchel, Borussia Dortmund's former coach, who has spent the current season on sabbatical, will take over at Paris Saint-Germain, the French champions confirmed on Monday, ending weeks of speculation. It is the 44-year-old German's first coaching position abroad; he had several successful seasons with Mainz before taking over the Dortmund job from Jürgen Klopp. Read more: Thomas Tuchel: A talented but difficult coach PSG stars Neymar und Kylian Mbappe First job abroad 'Great players' "It is with great joy, pride and ambition that I join this great global football club that is Paris Saint-Germain," Tuchel said in a statement released on Monday by PSG. "I'm impatient to start working with all these great players, all of whom are among the best on the planet. With my staff, we will do everything to help the team push their limits to the highest international level. There is tremendous potential in Paris and this is the most exciting challenge that has come to me." Tuchel also described himself as impatient to experience the atmosphere in the Parc des Princes, calling it a "mythical stadium" in European football. Following Dortmund's Westfalenstadion (officially the Signal Iduna Park nowadays), the fans and stadium in Paris may have a tough act to follow. Meanwhile, PSG President Nasser Al-Khelaifi said: "Thomas is one of the best and most competitive European coaches to have emerged over the last few seasons. He abides by very strong principles of playing spectacular and clinical football that has always been the foundation of German football, especially on the international scene." Tuchel arrived in Paris on Sunday, reportedly sitting down with Brazilian star player Neymar that evening. After a discussion apparently focused on Tuchel's plans for the club and his playing philosophy, PSG sought to quell rumors that the world's most expensive player would be seeking another transfer. Al-Khelaifi claimed late on Sunday that the chances of Neymar staying stood at "2,000 percent." Tuchel won the German Cup in 2017, his Borussia Dortmund beating Eintracht Frankfurt 2:1 European success the only criterion Tuchel, not long ago touted as a candidate to succeed Jupp Heynckes at Bayern Munich, will be judged by the club's performances in Europe. In 2014, The Uruguayan striker left Liverpool to join Lionel Messi in Barcelona for a fee of €82 euros. Being formerly known for various controversies including a biting incident at the 2014 World Cup, the Uruguayan has since primarily focussed on scoring goals. In 2015-2016 he won the European Golden Shoe. Jürgen Klopp has had his eye on him: Virgil van Dijk. The Dutch defender has moved from Southampton to Merseyside for a fee of €84.5 million - setting a new world record for a defender. After conceding 23 goals in 20 Premier League games so far, Klopp has been reminded often enough that he needs to strengthen his defense and this is the price that the club have to pay. Manchester United paid Everton €84.7 million for the Belgium international. After his move to Old Trafford, Lukaku became the most expensive striker in English history. However, Lukaku has been under heavy criticism as recent performances have fallen short of expectations. The Belgian's name has been on the scoresheet 10 times this Premier League season. Scoring 36 goals in 35 league appearances, Gonzalo Higuain had a memorable 2015-2016 season at Napoli. Italy's record champions Juventus were eager to sign the Argentinian striker, paying 90 million euros for his services. It's hardly surprising Napoli supporters were left upset over the transfer. We don't know whether Cristiano Ronaldo dislikes the fact his 94-million-euro-move from Manchester United to Real Madrid in 2009 has regressed to sixth place. Portugal's most capped player of all time remained the world's most expensive player for four years. Winning this year's Ballon d'Or may nevertheless prove a decent compensation for the Real Madrid star. Welsh superstar Gareth Bale became the world's most expensive player in 2013, being transferred to Real Madrid for a fee of €100 million after a six-year stint at Tottenham Hotspur. His move remains the most costly signing ever finalized by the Spanish club. In 2016, Manchester United's signing of French international Paul Pogba for a fee of €105 million was not only the summer's most notable transfer news - the deal also broke the world transfer record. Pogba left Juventus to return to his former club on a five-year contract but the transfer record would be broken just a year after. The 20-year-old was one of Dortmund's most exciting and promising players. So much so that only after a year of playing in Germany, Barcelona came knocking for his services. Dembele transfered to Barca for €105 million. The deal is the most expensive sale by a German club in football history. Want to talk about profit? Liverpool purchased Philippe Coutinho from Inter Milan in January 2013 for €13 million. Five years later, the English club sold the Brazilian playmaker for a reported €120 million fee (which could increase to €160 million). A pretty good turnover, right? Who could afford to buy a player for €222 million? Qatari owned French giants Paris Saint-Germain are certainly one of the very few clubs in the globe capable of it. In the summer of 2017, Brazilian star Neymar received an offer he could just not refuse from PSG. The Brazilian left Lionel Messi's shadow in Barcelona for the French capital becoming the world's most expensive footballer. The 46-year-old Emery led PSG to five national titles, but failed in the prestigious Champions League — never progressing beyond the quarterfinals. In 2016-17 they let a 4-0 lead slip against Barcelona and lost to Real Madrid this season. Tuchel will bring with him an attacking mindset; his Dortmund team was known for attacking with pace, while underfunded Mainz often focused on counterattacking. He's known as a demanding coach who expects a great deal from his players in training, especially on tactical matters. He speaks French and English. How he manages PSG’s biggest-name forwards — Edinson Cavani, Kylian Mbappe and Neymar — could prove crucial. According to daily Le Parisien, Tuchel will be looking at new signings and may have players from the Bundesliga in his sights, with Augsburg left-back Philipp Max, Dortmund's defender Ömer Toprak and midfielder Julian Weigl mentioned as possible targets. He already has German stars at his disposal: Kevin Trapp in goal and Julian Draxler on the flank. Tuchel’s playing career as a defender at third-division Ulm was ended by a knee injury in 1998. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2vtHO jbh/msh (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)