France's Defense Ministry said in a statement on Thursday that the two men were being investigated over suspicion of "treason through delivering information to a foreign power" and "compromising the secrecy of national defense." Defense Minister Florence Parly, who oversees the country's General Directorate for External Security (DGSE), said Friday she could not identify which "foreign power" recruited the French agents. The "double agent" act was reportedly discovered in December and the unnamed spies were indicted the same month. "France has partners but we live in a dangerous world, and, unfortunately, these types of things can happen," Parly told CNews television. "The fact that we sounded the alert is proof of our vigilance." Read more: Former CIA officer arrested for possessing 'top-secret' documents Why are Russia and the West allowed to spy on each other? French Defense Minister Florence Parly Suspected Chinese involvement French media said China could be the suspected foreign power the spies handed over information to. One of the indicted French spies was reportedly posted in Beijing. Another former French intelligence officer also faces charges of inciting treason, a judicial source told Reuters news agency. The revelations come just weeks after US authorities said they had indicted a former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) operative for China spying. Read more: China 'crippled CIA operations, killed informants': New York Times Yulia Skripal: Daughter of Russian ex-spy speaks for 
first  time since nerve agent attack Sergei Skripal, a 66-year-old former Russian spy, was found unconscious on a bench outside a shopping center in the British city of Salisbury after he was exposed to what police said was an unknown substance. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the situation "tragic" but said, "We don't have information about what could be the cause, what this person did." The estranged half-brother of Kim Jong Un was killed on February 13, 2018 at Kuala Lumpur airport after two women allegedly smeared the chemical nerve agent VX on his face. In February, a Malaysian court heard that Kim Jong Nam had been carrying a dozen vials of antidote for the deadly nerve agent VX in his backpack at the time of the poisoning. Former Russian spy Litvinenko had worked for the Federal Security Service (FSB) before he defected to Britain, where he became a journalist and wrote two books of accusations against the FSB and Putin. He became ill after meeting with two former KGB officers and died on November 23, 2006. A government inquiry found he was killed by radioactive polonium-210 which it alleged the men put in his tea. In November 2010, doctors at Berlin's Charité hospital discovered high levels of mercury had been found in a Russian dissident couple working in Berlin. Kalashnikov, a freelance journalist and former KGB colonel, had 3.7 micrograms of mercury per litre of blood, while his wife had 56 micrograms. A safe level is 1-3 micrograms. Viktor reportedly told German magazine Focus that "Moscow poisoned us." Ukrainian opposition leader Yushchenko became sick in September 2004 and was diagnosed with acute pancreatis caused by a viral infection and chemical substances. The illness resulted in facial disfigurement, with pockmarks, bloating and jaundice. Doctors said the changes to his face were from chloracne, which is a result of dioxin poisoning. Yushchenko claimed government agents poisoned him. On September 25, 1997, Israel's intelligence agency attempted to assassinate Hamas leader Meshaal, under orders from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Two agents sprayed a poisonous substance into Meshaal's ear as he walked into the Hamas offices in Amman, Jordan. The assassination attempt was unsuccessful and not long afterward the two Israeli agents were captured. In 1978, Bulgarian dissident Markov was waiting at a bus stop after a shift at the BBC when he felt a sharp jab in his thigh. He turned to see a man picking up an umbrella. A small bump appeared where he felt the jab and four days later he died. An autopsy found he'd been killed by a small pellet containing a 0.2-milligram dose of ricin. Many believe the poisoned dart was fired from the umbrella. On December 30, 1916, mystic and spiritual healer Rasputin arrived at Yusupov Palace in St Petersburg at the invitation Prince Felix Yusupov. There, Prince Yusupov offered Rasputin cakes laced with potassium cyanide but he just kept eating them. Yusupov then gave him wine in a cyanide-laced wine glasses, but still Rasputin continued to drink. With the poison failing, Rasputin was shot and killed. Author: Louisa Wright shs/sms  (AFP, AP, Reuters)