The euro and US and European stock markets fell on Tuesday amid fears that political uncertainty in Italy could lead to broader instability in the eurozone. Italy faces the prospect of fresh elections after populist anti-establishment, euroskeptic parties failed to form a government. Read more: Italian stop-gap premier presents cabinet as League hits out at EU How the market responded to Italy's turmoil Read more: Italian populist coalition's failure to govern throws government into doubt Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yYtu 'Work things out within the eurozone' A senior official in the US Treasury Department, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told reporters that Italy should work to resolve its current political crisis while staying within the eurozone. "I think it would be better if they were to work things out within the eurozone without making significant changes there, and certainly the Italians have the opportunity to do that," he said. He added that he saw no immediate danger to the stability of the wider financial system. Why Italy matters Italy is the third-largest economy in Europe that uses the euro currency. It has struggled to grow since the 2007-2009 financial crisis and has an enormous pile of debt. Investors are worried that euroskeptic parties could form a future government that would abandon the euro or commit to spending that would cause wider instability in the bloc. What's next? The country is likely to hold fresh elections by the end of the summer after Italian President Sergio Mattarella blocked efforts by two euroskeptic parties — the populist 5-Star Movement (M5S) and the right-wing League — to form a coalition government. Mattarella has tasked former economist Carlo Cottarelli with forming a caretaker government, but it is unlikely to win necessary approval from the Italian parliament. Not just Italy Other challenges are also putting a strain on global markets, including international trade tensions over US protectionist tariffs and uncertainty about the future of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, along with nuclear tensions between the US and North Korea. Read more: EU chides Budget Commissioner Günther Oettinger over Italy remarks Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yYtf amp/cmk (AP, AFP, Reuters)