Serbian police on Sunday blocked roads to prevent ultranationalist leader Vojislav Seselj from holding a rally in a village, where he committed crimes against humanity during the 1990s wars that accompanied the break-up of Yugoslavia. Followed by an entourage comprising dozens of followers, Seselj attempted to make his way to the ethnically mixed village of Hrtkovci on Sunday. But police cordoned off roads leading to the village, which lies north-west of the Serbian capital Belgrade. Read more: Serbia balances between Russia and the West "We wanted to have a peaceful rally, and the regime had banned it without any reason," Seselj told reporters. Hrtkovci was where Seselj delivered a speech in 1992 that resulted in deportations of scores of ethnic Croats from the village. Vojislav Seselj told reporters he just wanted to hold a "peaceful rally" 'War criminal' Skirmishes broke out when members of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) arrived at the roadblock and held up a banner that read: "Seselj is a war criminal." Earlier this year, Seselj was convicted by UN war crimes judges of crimes against humanity for "instigating deportation and persecution." Prosecutors sentenced him to 10 years in prison, but he was released soon afterward for time served. Read more: '2025 is ambitious for Western Balkans to join EU' The conviction was hailed by many in the international community. Human rights watching Amnesty International said the conviction represented "a welcome development which delivers long-delayed justice to thousands of victims of the armed conflicts in the former Yugoslavia." More than 100,000 people were killed in the wars that broke out during the break of Yugoslavia. Seselj, who founded the Serbian Radical Party, served as deputy prime minister under Slobodan Milosevic throughout the wars. In the late 1990s, the conflict in Kosovo was escalating as tens of thousands of people fled the region. After all efforts at pacifying the region failed, NATO began carrying out air raids on military bases and strategic targets in Serbia on March 24, 1999. Eleven weeks later, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic finally gave in. In the mid 1980s, protests began in Kosovo against government attempts to curtail the rights of the Albanian majority. The reprisals worsened in the 1990s. Ibrahim Rugova, leader of the political movement in Kosovo since 1989, tried to make Milosevic change course using peaceful resistance - without success. An armed resistance formed in Kosovo. The self-appointed liberation army UCK started a brutal guerrilla war and carried out violent attacks against Serbs and Albanians whom they saw as collaborators. Serbia reacted with retaliatory measures: Houses were torched and shops plundered, as hundreds of thousands fled the region. As time passed, the war became ever more brutal. Serbian forces increasingly attacked civilians with the aim of breaking the UCK's resistance and its support among the population. Many people looked for refuge in the forests. Trains and trucks transport thousands of people to the borders - without passports or other documents which could prove that their home had been in Kosovo. Under the auspices of the US, France, the UK, Russia and Germany, the conflicting parties attended a conference in Rambouillet, France in February 1999 with the aim of working out a limited settlement guaranteeing Kosovo's autonomy. Representatives of Kosovo accepted the conditions of the deal, but their Serbian counterparts were not willing to make any concessions. The negotiations failed. On March 24, 1999, NATO began bombarding military and strategic targets in Serbia and Kosovo in order to stop the violence against Albanians. Germany joined the military action, known as Operation Allied Force. It was NATO's first war in its 50-year history - and that without the official backing of the UN Security Council. Russia sharply condemned the intervention. Next to military installations, NATO also attacked transportation networks such as railroad tracks and bridges. During the following 79 days and nights, the alliance carried out more than 37,000 operations with 20,000 rockets and bombs striking Serbian territory and killing countless civilians - what NATO referred to as "collateral damage." Industrial sites were also among the targets. NATO bombs hit chemical plants and a fertilizer factory in the town of Pancevo near the capital, Belgrade. Huge amounts of toxic substances made their way into rivers, soil and the air, with grave health consequences for the local population. Serbia accused NATO of having used depleted uranium ammunition, as well as cluster and fragmentation bombs. In order to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his most important propaganda tool, NATO decided to attack Serbia's public television station in Belgrade. The Serbian government, although told of the attack in advance, withheld the information from the public. Sixteen people lost their lives in the bombing. In Kosovo, NATO bombs inadvertently hit a group of Albanian refugees, killing an estimated 80 people. More "collateral damage" occurred when NATO bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, killing four people. The incident led to a severe diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington. In early June, communications out of Belgrade showed that Milosevic was finally willing to make concessions. NATO brought an end to its raids on June 19. During the air strikes, thousands of people were killed, 860,000 refugees were displaced and Serbia's economy and infrastructure were largely destroyed. Kosovo was placed under the administration of the United Nations. Author: Sonila Sand / ad ls/aw (Reuters, AP)