Harvey Weinstein, the former Hollywood media mogul, is expected to give himself up to New York police on Friday after a months-long investigation into sexual assault accusations against him, US media has reported.  Multiple sources familiar with the investigation told the New York Times that police would charge Weinstein in connection with accusations by Lucia Evans, an aspiring actress who said Weinstein forced her to perform oral sex on him in 2004. Read more: Actress Ashley Judd sues Harvey Weinstein for defamation, ruining career The New York Daily News and NBC News also reported police were expecting to arrest Weinstein on Friday. Whether Weinstein would face charges related to separate sexual assault allegations by other female celebrities and employees at his company against him was unclear. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2rTQ5 Fall from grace The 66-year-old was one of Hollywood's most powerful figures before reports emerged in October in which multiple women accused him of sexual misconduct, in some cases including rape, and trying to coerce them. He has since been fired from his company, Weinstein Co., and expelled from the Academy of Motion Pictures. Read more: NYT investigation on Harvey Weinstein to become a film The accusations, which more than 70 women have made against him, also helped generate greater awareness about sexual assault and sparked the international anti-assault movements "#MeToo" and "#TimesUp." US and British authorities have been investigating Weinstein for months, but have not yet filed charges against him. Weinstein has repeatedly denied having non-consensual sex with any of his accusers. Read more: Bob Weinstein helped hide brother Harvey's misconduct amp/bw (AFP, Reuters) Harvey Weinstein has been accused by dozens of women of sexual harassment or sexual assaults, including rape. Under investigation by police departments in New York, London, Beverly Hills and Los Angeles, Weinstein denies all allegations of non-consensual sex, but apologized for causing "a lot of pain." The case prompted many other women to come forward. PBS and CBS host Charlie Rose is accused by several women of unwanted sexual advances, walking naked in front of them or making lewd phone calls. He has apologized for his behavior but questioned the accuracy of some of the allegations. Meanwhile, Journalist Mark Halperin is accused of harassing about 12 women while at ABC News. US Senate candidate Roy Moore, a Republican from Alabama, is accused of sexually assaulting two teenagers and pursuing relationships with several others decades ago, when he was in his 30s. He has denied the allegations. Former President George H.W. Bush was accused of patting seven women below the waist. The 93-year-old has issued apologies through a spokesman "to anyone he has offended." A senior figure in the US Democratic party, Minnesota Senator Al Franken is accused of forcibly kissing radio personality Leeann Tweeden and groping her while she slept during a 2006 tour to Afghanistan to entertain US troops. The former comedian who became a senator in 2009 has apologized, saying he felt "disgusted" with himself. Ex-USA gymnastics team doctor Lawrence "Larry" Nassar is accused of abusing over 100 female athletes. He pleaded guilty to multiple counts of criminal sexual conduct and could face 25 years in prison. Three of his victims were under 13 years old. Israeli IOC member Alex Gilady is accused by two women of rape and by two others of inappropriate conduct. He denies the rape accusations. Actor Kevin Spacey has been accused by at least 24 men of sexual misconduct or assault. London police are investigating two sexual assaults and he was fired from "House of Cards." Dustin Hoffman is accused by a woman of harassing her when she was 17. He has apologized for his behavior. Writer-director James Toback is accused by hundreds of women of sexual harassment. He denies the allegations. Author: Jo Harper Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here.