Arkady Babchenko, a Russian journalist who voiced criticism about Russia's "wars of aggression" in Georgia, Crimea, Eastern Ukraine and Syria, was reportedly shot in the back at his Kyiv apartment on Tuesday. He died before paramedics could get him to the hospital. Babchenko had been living in Kyiv since 2017 Babchenko left Russia in 2017, facing calls for his citizenship to be revoked and a growing number of threats for voicing his indifference to a December 2016 plane crash that killed a Russian military choir en route to Syria to perform for air force pilots. Writing on the subject, he called Russia an "aggressor" and criticized the air force's indiscriminate bombing campaign in Aleppo. Read more: Opinion — Easy game for Vladimir Putin Denounced for lacking patriotism Babchenko was accused of lacking patriotism, something he called ironic considering he fought for his country in the first separatist war in Chechnya in the 1990s. Nevertheless, pro-government politicians began to denounce him and call for him to be jailed for his views. This was followed by a media campaign against him on state-run television. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2uHZ1 Shortly thereafter, aggression toward Babchenko began to snowball on social media platforms, and he no longer felt he could stay in the country. He said his address had been published online and that he and his family had received thousands of threats. He also pointed to similar incidents in which colleagues had been brutally beaten as a result of such online campaigns. Babchenko served as a war correspondent after leaving the army and wrote a book about his time in Chechnya titled, "One Soldier's War." He went on to write for a number of outlets, including the newspaper Novaya Gazeta. Most recently, he had worked as a host at the Crimean Tatar TV station ATR. js/cmk (AP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.