The newest member of US President Donald Trump's often-changing legal team is perhaps the oldest practitioner of Trumpian politics – former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, who announced late Thursday that he was leaving powerhouse law firm Greenberg Traurig to focus solely on defending Trump in the Mueller investigation. But sources inside the firm have told New York media that Giuliani's departure was prompted by what critics have described as recent "erratic" behavior during a blitz of media appearances in support of the president. Giuliani has directly contradicted his now-client's statements on payments made to adult film actress Stormy Daniels, announced the release of US prisoners from North Korea before an official statement, and offered an explanation for the firing of former FBI Director James Comey that varied wildly from the White House line. While his conduct has led some detractors to speculate that the ex-mayor is "losing it" and "doesn't know what he's doing," but for anyone who has paid attention to the wild ups and downs of Giuliani's career, this apparent disregard for veracity and decorum – a style Trump has also become known for – is just more of the same from the man who first employed this strategy to take on the Mafia as a state prosecutor in New York in the 1980s. The Trump of the 90s "He was Trump in the 80s and 90s," said John Mollenkopf, a professor of political science at City University of New York's Graduate Center and author of several books on city politics. Considering Giuliani was mayor at the same time Trump was not only expanding his personal brand in New York but also getting interested in politics, it's not a stretch to imagine that the former's brand of brash braggadocio may have had an influence on the latter. Take, for example, Giuliani's now infamous employment of broken windows policing – a policy of targeting even minor offenses with harsh punishments, which Giuliani has claimed is responsible for turning New York from one of the most dangerous big cities in the US to one of the safest. New York City police changed to controversial tactics in the 90s and is now ranked as a safer US city "The drop in crime under Giuliani's mayoralty was really quite dramatic, as was the reduction in visible homelessness away from mostly white, middle- and upper-class areas. This was due in large part to his attempts at decreasing the influence of black and Latino legislators, as well as changes to policing – which came at a significant price," Mollenkopf said. "People were arrested straight out rather than getting a summons to appear in court before being convicted," Mollenkopf added. "This gave a substantial amount of minority young men a criminal record, making it harder for them to get a job or accepted to a university." Echoes of these policies can be seen in Trump's approach to similar crises, such as suggesting at a reach White House summit that the way to deal with the country's opioid crisis was to execute drug dealers. 'America's mayor' accused of rights abuses Mollenkopf suggested that Giuliani's reputation as "America's mayor," for his steady hand after the terror attacks on September 11, 2001, may have caused some to forget that his legacy in New York was not entirely positive. "9/11 enabled him to rehabilitate himself politically. And while he should be praised for, as an example, telling New Yorkers not to react to the attacks with Islamophobia, he also used the tragedy to suggest that he should be able to extend his final term in office," said Mollenkopf. A Quinnipiac poll from February 2001 showed how unpopular Giuliani was before September 11, especially among minority voters amidst allegations of civil rights abuses by City Hall and police misconduct. In a tweet on March 22, US President Trump announced he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton as his national security adviser. A respected general, McMaster said he would retire from the US Army and public service. McMaster's departure was not a complete surprise as he and Trump are reported to have had conflicting views on a number of US policies. A former Exxon executive, Tillerson had served as secretary of state for a little over a year. Donald Trump ousted Tillerson in order to form a "new team" ahead of talks with North Korea, adding that he and Tillerson "disagreed on things." The relationship between them is said to have deteriorated after Tillerson reportedly called Trump a "moron" in October 2017. A Goldman Sachs veteran, Gary Cohn served as Donald Trump's top economic adviser at the head of the National Economic Council. He helped push through controversial tax reforms in 2017. However, Cohn stepped down in March 2018 after failing to persuade Trump to give up his idea of imposing tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Hope Hicks resigned from her post as the White House Communications Director in late February 2018. A day before resigning, she testified before US lawmakers on Russian interference. She admitted to telling "white lies" for Donald Trump, but not related to Russia. The White House insisted her resignation was not linked to the testimony. The 29-year-old was among Trump's closest aides. The White House staff secretary handed in his resignation after his ex-wives accused him of domestic abuse. Despite resigning, Rob Porter denied the allegations as "simply false." Trump initially defended Porter, and the US media questioned if and how Porter passed his background check for the job. Recently, reports surfaced of a romance between Porter and Trump's longtime aide Hope Hicks. He played a key role in getting Donald Trump into the White House, but even chief strategist Stephen Bannon was ousted within a year. Bannon was a champion of economic nationalism and Trump's "America First" strategy. After the fallout of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville mid-Aigust, Bannon agreed to leave the administration. The 53-year-old former hedge fund investor nicknamed the "Mooch" was communications director for just 10 days. The colorful New Yorker filled a dream role that had been vacant for months, but was forced out on the same day that straight-shooting former Marine Corps general John Kelly became chief of staff. Trump was displeased with his infamous expletive-laden rant against other senior staff. Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, resigned in July 2017 after clashing with the White House over Trump's complicated financial holdings. Shaub reportedly called Trump's administration a "laughing stock." Reince Priebus, the former White House chief-of-staff, was forced out just six months into his tenure after a public feud with Anthony Scaramucci, the White House communications director. Priebus was reportedly among those West Wing staffers who opposed the hire of Scaramucci. Sean Spicer, who had a fraught relationship with the president and the press, resigned after telling Trump he vehemently disagreed with the selection of Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director. Michael Dubke, the former White House communications director, was asked to leave in May 2017 over what was perceived as his poor handling of the allegations involving Russian involvement in the US election. US President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey - allegedly over how he handled the Clinton emails investigation. Critics, however, believe the FBI's probe into Trump's campaign ties with Russia was the real reason. Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in February 2017 after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office and misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations. The poll found that 64 percent of African-American voters and 52 percent of Hispanic voters said police brutality was a "very serious problem." In this context, Giuliani, who advised Trump on the so-called "Muslim Ban" and who called the Black Lives Matter movement "inherently racist," begins to look less like the outbursts of a man who has lost touch, but more "in keeping with how he's always been," Mollenkopf said. Having turned a controversial mayoral term and gigs hosting cable television movie marathons into a seat at Trump's legal 
table , the next question for Giuliani will be how long he remains there. Two of his predecessors have already stepped down in frustration, and with White House sources telling US media that the president is less than pleased with his performance, Giuliani may be the Trump administration's next casualty. DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.