Armenian President Armen Sarkissian dismissed the heads of the security service and police on Thursday at the request of Nikol Pashinyan, who was elected prime minister by parliament earlier this week after missing the mark earlier in May. "I've just signed a statement to the president about relieving the police chief, Vladimir Gasparyan, and security service head, Georgi Kutoyan, of their duties," Pashinyan, a former newspaper editor who once spent time in prison for fomenting unrest, wrote on his Facebook page Thursday. Armenia's parliament elected Pashinyan prime minister this week after he helped lead weeks of protests against the ruling Republican Party, transforming the political landscape. Critics had accused longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan, who stepped down on April 23, and his Republican Party of corruption, doing the bidding of powerful oligarchs and failing to tackle widespread poverty. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xNzD 'The same side' Sarkissian will replace Gasparyan, who had served as head of the police since 2011, with Valery Osipyan, the deputy chief of police in the capital, Yerevan, according to a presidential decree published on Thursday. Pashinyan underlined the symbolism of the appointment: "During the demonstrations, we were on a different side of the barricade from Valeri Osipyan. I decided ... that we will be on the same side." Pashinyan appointed Artur Vanetsyan, who currently heads Yerevan's security services, to the countrywide role. "The National Security Service must perform a serious function in the fight against corruption, which we must wipe out very quickly from Armenia," the prime minister said as he announced the personnel change. Before being elected prime minister, Pashinyan said he would eradicate corruption and ensure "a normal life in the country." In recent weeks, the hugely popular Pashinyan and his supporters put pressure on the Republicans through civil disobedience, leading to Sargsyan's shocking 
resignation  just a week after, following 10 years as president, he assumed the prime minister title to take advantage of new powers given to the office. Serzh Sargsyan, who ruled Armenia for 10 years, tendered his resignation after widespread public demonstrations against his attempts to hold onto power. The Armenian government named former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, an ally of Sargsyan, as acting premier. The protests were sparked by Sargsyan's move to extend his rule. The 63-year-old was president of Armenia from 2008 until a term limit forced him out in March. But the parliament, which is controlled by ruling Republican Party, installed him as prime minister in April and curbed the powers of the president. The shift to a strengthened parliamentary triggered massive anti-government protests in the capital of Yerevan on April 13, with thousands of people participating in rolling demonstrations against Sargsyan. Hundreds of Armenian soldiers also joined the protests. The parliament's move to keep Sargsyan in power echoed a maneuver by Russian President Vladimir Putin a decade ago. Leaders in several former Soviet republics have used similar methods to remain in power. Acting PM Karapetian too has close ties with Russia. He worked in Russia for five years as a senior executive of state-controlled gas giant Gazprom. Protesters in the capital Yerevan took to the streets to celebrate Sargsyan's resignation. A day after Sargsyan stepped down, the country's opposition called for a meeting with the caretaker prime minister to discuss a "peaceful transfer of power." In this photo, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian (R) is seen in a meeting with Sargsyan on April 22, urging him to step down. Russia, Armenia's closest ally, said on April 24 that it was not concerned about the political situation in Yerevan. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said he did not regard Armenia's political tumult as a Ukraine-style revolt against pro-Russia politicians. However, according to analysts, Sargsyan's resignation has unsettled Russian interests in Armenia. After talks with acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetyan were cancelled, Pashinian and his supporters took to the streets again on April 25 to demand parliament choose a "people's candidate" who di not come from the ruling Republican Party. Armenia's parliament will vote for a new premier on May 1. Pashinian has said he is prepared to be a candidate, but it is unclear if he will get support. The ruling Republican Party holds a majority in parliament. As Nikol Pashinian's supporters staged further protests on April 29, the ruling Republican Party which holds a majority in parliament said it would not put forward a candidate for prime minister to stand against Pashinian. The party would not "impede the election of the people's candidate" if all three opposition factions voted for him, leader Vahram Baghdasaryan said. Short of six votes, Pashinian met with other political leaders in parliament on April 30. "We are facing the task of resolving the political crisis in the country," he said. "If a prime minister is not elected tomorrow, this crisis will not disappear." The vote in parliament for a new prime minister was scheduled for May 1. Author: Shamil Shams (with AP, dpa, Reuters) mkg/rc (Reuters, AFP)