Back in 2003, Japanese whisky was almost exclusively for the domestic market and even then was largely overshadowed by imported Scotch that was primarily prized for the price on the label. Then Bill Murray looked into the camera as he made an advert for a Japanese whisky brand in the hugely popular movie "Lost in Translation" and uttered the line – repeatedly – "For relaxing times, make it Suntory time." Those few words caught the attention of the world's whisky-drinking community, who quickly realized that Japanese distillers were making some excellent whiskies. Very quickly, cases of brands produced by Suntory Spirits Ltd., Nikka Whisky Distilling Co., Kirin Brewery Co. and others were being shipped to New York, Paris and Singapore, while at home the image of whisky drinkers being sophisticated and well-to-do fueled a domestic boom. The distillers reveled in the popularity of their product – at least until stocks of the most sought-after aged whiskies lasted. Unfortunately, that time has come. Read more: Scotland sets minimum price for alcohol to fight drinking problems Hollywood movie 'Lost in Translation' played a big role in popularizing Japanese whiskies in the US Suspending sales Earlier this month, Suntory announced that it would have to suspend sales of two of its most popular whiskies, the Hakushu 12 years and the Hibiki 17 years, from this coming June. Stocks available at liquor stores were snapped up virtually overnight and bottles of the Hibiki, which retails for Y12,000 (€92.35) can now be found changing hands on specialist websites for five times that figure. Given the shortage, those prices are expected to continue to increase. "We saw demand for these high-end whiskies start to rise from about 2006 but, simply put, demand has outstripped pace at which we can produce new stock much faster than we imagined," Hasumi Ozawa, a spokeswoman for Suntory, told DW. "We have already started to increase production, but the problem remains the ageing process, which obviously cannot be changed," she said. In 2017, the company exported 34.9 million cases of whisky, with each case containing a total of 8.4 liters of spirits. And Ozawa confirmed that given the popularity of whisky, the company is "considering" launching new brands of whisky. Other producers are experiencing a similar predicament. Nikka Whisky halted sales of bottles of its aged Taketsuru in 2014, followed by its Yoichi and Miyagikyo brands the following year. Kirin, which sells a number of brands, of which Fuji-Sanroku is the most popular, has also admitted it is facing problems meeting demand for aged whisky. Japanese whiskies are in high demand in the US and Europe Victim of their own success Brian Cullen, an expert and founder of Japan Whisky Tours, says distillers have become victims of their own runaway success. "The heyday for Japanese whiskies was the mid-2000s, when the rest of the world discovered some of the amazing single-cask whiskies being produced here," he said. "And they really announced their arrival when Japanese brands began to win international awards, beating the Scots at their own game." In 2014, global whisky expert Jim Murray named the Yamazaki 17 the best in the world in his annual "Whisky Bible," with that recognition driving sales through the roof. The same year, national broadcaster NHK produced a long-running drama series titled Massan, that told the true story of Masataka Taketsuru, who met his Scottish wife, Jessie Cowan, while serving an apprenticeship at Longmorn distillery in Strathspey in 1919 before returning to Japan to set up the Nikka Whisky Distilling Co. The series was a huge hit, particularly among women, and is credited with triggering an increase in domestic sales of whisky highballs, said Cullen. "There was a new limited run of a Chichibu whisky released yesterday and it was announced in advance that the bottles would be available on their website at 12 noon," he said. "I was ready and hit the button at exactly noon, but I was already too late. The entire batch of 200 had sold out in less than 5 seconds." For connoisseurs of whisky, the attention to detail that goes into making the drink in Japan is what put these brands in the highest echelons of whisky, says Cullen, such as the distilleries' insistence on using high-quality Spanish sherry casks. Read more: UK must protect Scotch whisky post-Brexit, says Scottish official Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2i5pO Complex flavors "And that means that the complexities of the whisky flavors is quite remarkable," he added. "Each is obviously different, but some of these 30-year-old whiskies have unique notes of sour plum or even tropical fruits." The popularity of whisky has given rise to a number of producers who are ignoring the generally accepted requirement that whisky is aged for a minimum of three years – a legal stipulation in Scotland and a rule that Japanese distilleries generally stick to. Such whiskies are acceptable when served in a cocktail, the experts agree, but the real thing should be savored with absolutely no distractions. The Scottish capital is over 1,300 years old and is packed with culture and history. The castle, the old town center, and the many museums make Edinburgh Scotland's most popular tourist destination. A sight-seeing tour of Edinburgh should always include this futuristic building. The Scottish Parliament has been sitting here since 2004. On March 28, on the eve of the British government formally launching Brexit, a majority of delegates here supported a new Scottish independence referendum. Mountains, moors and sheer endless heaths: For centuries, the Highlands provided the backdrop for many battles for independence against the English. Back then, the clan chiefs used to retreat into the Highland. Today, hikers get to enjoy the region's tranquility and untouched nature. Those who don't want to hike can always hop on a train, like the Jacobite Steam Train, which is better known as the Hogwarts Express. The Harry Potter movies made this traditional train and the rough beauty of the Highlands world famous. In Scotland a lake is called a "loch," and this one is thought to be home to Nessie, the Loch Ness Monster, an aquatic being said to live in the lake. Nobody has actually seen it, but every year newspapers run stories of reported sightings. Far more real are the old stones of Urquhart Castle, one of Scotland's most beautiful castle ruins. There are nearly 100 Highland Games events which all include curious disciplines like tug-a-war, the caber toss, and the stone-put. Here Scots prove that they are real men under their kilts! Originally, the Highland Games were part of Scottish clan gatherings. Today, they are popular public festivals for locals and tourists. Scotland has more castles than inhabitants, and Blair Castle is one of the most beautiful. It was regularly renovated over the centuries, but its origins date back to the year 1269. It has 32 fully furbished rooms on show as well as an armory and a display of hunting trophies. Who would have guessed that the Scotts were the inventors of stone circles! One of the most impressive, the Calanais Standing Stones, can be found on the Isle of Lewis. This gigantic monument encompassing 50 stones was created some 5,000 years ago. England's Stonehenge is a good 1,000 years younger and yet more famous. How did the English do that? These modern day monuments can be found in Glasgow. After the industrial decline, Scotland's biggest city reemerged with a new image. Modern architecture and design now define the cityscape. The Clyde district was developed on the old riverfront, which is where you'll find these buildings, the Hydro and Conference Centre, whose Clyde Auditorium was designed by Sir Norman Foster. It is called the "water of life" and it is Scotland's national drink. There are more than 100 whisky distilleries in Scotland and the list of the various types and blends seems never-ending. So all that remains to be said is "Slainte Mhath" - a local toast. And we say: here's to a wonderful travel destination and its very friendly people. Author: Kerstin Schmidt