Jill Heinerth has always felt at home under water – even when her life hung in the balance. She nearly drowned when she was a toddler but instead of feeling fear, she recalls fascination. "I remember the ripples on the bottom of the lake and the rainbows that the light made as it passed through the water," she says. Heinerth grew up as a self-described "waterbaby." "I swam. I played water polo. I did springboard diving. I paddled." She was also the kid who enjoyed hiding in kitchen cupboards and dark spaces – good practice for someone who would later specialize in exploring caves. Jacques Cousteau, inspiration for a young Heinerth, as well as Wes Anderson flick The Life Aquatic Now 53, Heinerth says she was inspired by celebrity diver Jacques Cousteau, who enthralled television audiences with his exploration of watery underworlds during the 1970s and 80s. Having honed her diving in America's Great Lakes, Heinerth added underwater camerawork to skills, and got her first experience combining filmmaking and cave diving in Florida. Three decades years later, she is one of the world's most decorated cave divers, a recipient of the Canadian Governor General's Polar Medal and member of the elite US Explorers Club, whose alumni include Polar explorer Roald Amundsen, aviator Charles Lindbergh, Sir Edmund Hillary and astronaut Neil Armstrong. Illuminating the life of caves Her latest role is as the Royal Canadian Geographic Society's first Explorer In Residence. And she's using it to shed light on aquatic worlds usually shrouded from view. The Earth's surface is 70 percent water. And yet, Heinerth points out in talks to school children, politicians and think tanks, we know less about the oceans that we do about the surface of the moon, "and we know more about our oceans than we do about water-filled caves." Those caves conceal strange lifeforms, as well as clues to climate change – past and present – and rising sea levels. Heinerth says we ignore them at risk to the health of the planet, and human communities. "Whatever we do on the surface of the Earth soaks into the ground into our drinking water supplies," she says. Jill Heinerth in Florida, where she cut her teeth as a cave-diving filmmaker my years earlier Having explored water channels inside icebergs, mine shafts and caves that extend deep into the Earth's crust, Heinerth has intimate knowledge of where our water comes from. "These cave systems that I swim through come out of the ground in springs, fill rivers and creeks – the oceans are the very lungs of our planet," she explains. Armed with a camera, Heinerth brings back captivating images to inspire protection of these water sources. "Caves to me are like swimming into a cathedral… the doorways where the light streams down from the surface … illuminating this gin-clear water. For me these are portals of discovery," she says, beaming. Clues to our planet's past Speaking to a group of school children, Heinerth explains how red sediment from the Sahara desert was found in a cave in the Bahamas. "So what's it doing in a cave on the opposite side of the Atlantic Ocean?" she asks. Marine ecosystems hold an incredible diversity of life, much of it threatened with extinction The answer reveals secrets from our geological history. "These caves were created when the ocean levels were lower and the caves were dry. In this cave, it's been dry during three separate dry epochs." Diving to depths of 120 meters (390 feet) off the coast of Bermuda, Heinerth and a team from America's National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration discovered more. "We found a continuous shelf along the Bermuda wall," which marks the former sea level, she explains. "That means the ocean levels were 120 meters lower than they are today. So we are living at a time of very high ocean sea levels – and it's getting higher." Perhaps her most spectacular – and dangerous – dive took Heinerth inside an Antarctic iceberg. B15, as it is known, calved away from the Ross Ice Shelf in 2000. It was the biggest iceberg ever recorded – larger than Jamaica – earning it the nickname Godzilla. The expedition saw Heinerth escape a collapsing glacier by a matter of moments. But it also revealed worlds no human had ever set eyes on before. Life, but not as we know it You might think that caverns within such a vast expanse of ice would be beyond the frontiers of life on Earth. But swimming through their pristine waters, Heinerth found that not to be the case. "An entire garden of life was growing underneath the iceberg," she says. "There was all kinds of life swimming within the conduits within this iceberg. It was alive! This was all new." Heinerth's adventures bring her face to face with some of the planet's more obscure creatures. She has a particular fondness for the remipede, a blind, venomous crustacean the size of a fingertip. One of Heinerth's team collects specimens 365 feet beneath the waves off Bermuda "We can find the identical animal in the fossil record more than 65 million years old – so what can that teach us about evolution and survival?" She has also uncovered the remains of species that haven't fared so well, including an extinct ice-age bear, and an ancestor of the modern camel at the bottom of a water-filled cave in Mexico. Heinerth takes a long view of life on our planet. And she's highly aware that through out own actions, humankind could be condemned to history, too. "Coral reefs are bleaching, the sea ice is breaking up, species are migrating or becoming extinct," she warns. "We have got to make some pretty hard decisions to determine the future of our species." Covering an area of almost 1.3 million square kilometers (800,000 square miles), this is among the world's largest marine protected areas. Located in the western Pacific Ocean, it is home to all manner of marine life including green turtles, pearl oysters, giant clams, reef sharks, coconut crabs, dolphins and whales. Surrounding this British Overseas Territory lies the largest contiguous marine protected area in the world. The 834,334 square kilometers of pristine ocean habitat are monitored via satellite to track potential illegal fishing activity in this vast and remote corner of the South Pacific. Situated off the northeastern coast of Australia, the Great Barrier Reef is the largest in the world. A vast area of that reef, which is so big it can be seen from space, forms the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. The reef saw devastating coral bleaching in 2016 and 2017. In an effort to protect the delicate ecosystem, fishing is strictly regulated and commercial ships can only use certain routes. A UNESCO World Heritage Site and home to many animals found nowhere else in the world, the Galapagos Marine Reserve in the Pacific Ocean is administered by Ecuador and is the largest marine park in a developing country. The Bowie Seamount is an underwater volcano located 180 kilometers off the west coast of Canada. Although the volcano rises about 3,000 meters from the ocean bed, its highest point is 24 meters below sea level. While it may be invisible to those of us living above water, the submerged mountain is home to a rich mix of marine fauna and flora. The United Kingdom declared this vast stretch of Indian Ocean a marine protected area in 2010. The legality of the move has been contested by Mauritius, which lays claim to the group of islands. In the 1970s, the UK evicted the entire native population from the archipelago and granted the United States permission to use it as a military base. Extending from the German-Danish maritime border down to the Elbe estuary, and with an area of 4,410 square kilometers, this is doubtless Germany’s largest national park. Due to the intertidal nature of the Wadden Sea, some 30 percent of it is only periodically under water. Covering a large area between the French Riviera, Sardinia and the Italian region of Tuscany, this sanctuary was established specifically to protect marine mammals. It is currently the world's only conservation area in international waters. In October 2016, the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) agreed to create a marine protected area off the coast of Antarctica. However, the 1.6 million square kilometers of pristine wilderness will only be protected for 35 years. What happens after remains to be seen. The government of Gabon announced in June 2017 creation of a 53,000-square-kilometer network of marine protected areas - the largest in Africa. It would apply to a quarter of Gabon's seas, which are incredibly rich in life, including sea turtles, whales, dolphins, corals, even crocodiles. The region is known for rampant overfishing - the reserves are accompanied by a sustainable fishing plan. In July 2017, the Cook Islands - a small island nation about halfway between New Zealand and Hawaii - approved designation of the world's new largest marine sanctuaries off its shores. The 1.9-million-square-kilometer preserve includes a core no-fishing zone, otherwise limits on mineral extraction and commercial fishing. It's hoped to help preserve the archipelago's lagoons and reefs. Author: Harald Franzen