Nils Petersen isn’t supposed to be here; he’s supposed to be on holiday. And after missing three calls from Joachim Löw because he was at lunch with his Freiburg teammates celebrating their Bundesliga survival, the 29-year-old striker was worried he would be. “It came out of nowhere!" he revealed. "I hoped that in that time he hadn’t called anyone else, but then I got the good news.” Read more: Nils Petersen the joker in Germany's World Cup pack He first told his girlfriend, so that she could cancel their holiday. He didn’t tell his dad until the evening because “he’d have probably told everyone.” But any suggestion of the Freiburg striker looking out of place was swiftly dismissed during Friday’s press conference at Germany's training camp in Italy. Petersen’s arrival was calm, taking his place while team manager Oliver Bierhoff was talking. Not once did he look or sound out of his depth. “I’ve been really welcomed," he began, coolly. "But I’m not completely new. I know the lads from Bayern, the Olympics team and the U21s." Nils Petersen was calmness personified at Germany's training camp One for the album There was even time to laugh when a young German football fan asked whether the striker was "annoyed" that he wasn’t in the popular Panini World Cup sticker album. Petersen replied in the negative, before adding with a smile: “I hope to be a part of this team for a while, and maybe then I’ll make it into the Panini album.” While amusing, Petersen’s absence from the album is an appropriate metaphor for the country-wide surprise at the striker’s inclusion. Granted, his 15 goals were the second highest in the Bundesliga this season, but this is not a striker who, at first glance, fits the slick, modern Germany football brand that has evolved in the last eight years. This is a journeyman of sorts, who started at Carl Zeiss Jena, suffered but learnt from a brief year at Bayern Munich, and eventually found his place at Freiburg. Petersen’s international career never looked like going anywhere beyond leading Germany to Olympic silver two years ago - an achievement that Petersen tellingly classed as a "disappointment." Now he has 10 days to make it into Germany’s final 23-man World Cup squad. “What has happened in my 29 years is remarkable. You always think things have got to go downhill at some point but now I’m with the national team,” Petersen said. Coach Joachim Löw (right) puts Petersen through his paces in training Battle for places With Joachim Löw unlikely to take more than two strikers and Timo Werner looking like the starter, Petersen will probably have to hold off the charge of the battle-hardened veteran, Mario Gomez. The 32-year-old Stuttgart striker isn’t coming off a great season – nine goals in 28 games – but has been here before and knows the role. Petersen acknowledged the speed and power of his striking colleagues, but added: “Perhaps I’m the surprise that no one knew.” Perhaps the biggest surprise of all is that in Petersen, Germany might well have found a player they haven’t really had since Oliver Bierhoff prowled the box – the super sub. “I’ve spent my life being subbed on. You can’t be negative about it and sometimes, it only takes a few minutes to make a difference,” Petersen said. That much was true in Brazil four years ago when Joachim Löw told Mario Götze to go and show the world he was better than Lionel Messi. If Petersen does goes to Russia, Löw won’t have to tell his super-sub anything. Will Germany's best goalkeeper be fit enough to play? Even though Neuer missed most of the season with injury issues, Joachim Löw has brought his captain along in the hope that he recovers.   International games: 74 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The Barcelona goalkeeper has been Löw's go-to option with Neuer on the shelf. With Germany's captain back in the fold, ter Stegen may have to make do with the bench, but he could also start while Neuer works on his fitness.   International games: 19 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Leverkusen shot stopper is another member of the goalkeeping troupe. Though he's enjoyed a decent season, he is firmly behind Neuer and ter Stegen on the depth chart.   International games: 6 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Trapp is the main beneficiary of Neuer's failure to recover. He had an underwhelming season, making just 12 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain and some high profile errors, but he's made the cut, for now.   International games: 3 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Bayern Munich man is arguably Germany's best defender, and one of the first names on Löw's teamsheet. But Boateng picked up a thigh injury against Real Madrid in March, casting doubt on whether he will be fit in time for the World Cup. International games: 70 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 2 Boateng's central defensive partner at club and international level is one of Löw's key men. The question is not whether he is going to start at the World Cup, but who will be starting alongside him.  International games: 63 / Goals: 5 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The Chelsea defender evidently has Löw's trust, as proven by his regular playing time during World Cup qualifiers. He will likely be the primary backup to Boateng and Hummels.   International games: 23 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Bayer Leverkusen man is likely to provide cover in case of injuries. The 22-year-old has himself had an injury-hit campaign for Bayer Leverkusen, but is very much seen as a player of the future. However, he may be one of the four names for the chop come June 4, when the squad must be reduced to 23.   International games: 3 / Goals: 0 / World Cup appearances: 0 He had a strong first season at Bayern and has experience playing with both Hummels and Boateng. The 22-year-old is now poised to make his first World Cup squad.   International games: 9 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 His transfer from Borussia Dortmund to Borussia Mönchengladbach hasn't done Ginter's international chances any harm. The utility man was the youngest squad member of the 2014 team, but didn't play a minute at the tournament. He'll be hoping for more this time, but may also struggle to make the final 23.   International games: 17 / Goals: 0 / World Cup appearances: 1 The Bayern defender has not only become Germany's best right back, but one of the best right backs in the world. Löw will need him at his best at the World Cup.   International games: 27 / Goals: 3 / World Cup appearances: 0 He will be playing in the second division next season after Cologne were relegated from the Bundesliga. Before then, Hector is likely to make his World Cup debut as Löw's starting left back.   International Games: 36 / Goals: 3 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Despite making his international debut at the Confederations Cup last year, the Hertha Berlin man finds himself with a decent chance of travelling to Russia. A set piece specialist, the 26-year-old will be backup for Hector.   International Games: 6 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 A metronomic presence, Kroos is expected to run the show in midfield for the defending champions. The Real Madrid midfielder has been an automatic selection for Germany for some time, and could enter the tournament with another Champions League title under his belt.   International games: 82 / Goals: 12 / World Cup appearances: 2 At 31, the Juventus midfielder may no longer be at the height of his powers. But his leadership is what Löw covets most and his commanding presence on the field will, almost certainly, earn him a starting spot.   International games: 73 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 2 He missed out on the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and the 2016 European Championship in France. After starting every game at the 2017 Confederations Cup, Rudy is trying to convince Löw to finally bring him to a major tournament.   International games: 24 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Manchester City midfielder is finally fit after missing Germany's last two major tournaments with various injuries. He is another deep-lying playmaker who can make things happen in midfield.  International games: 24 / Goals: 4 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Arsenal midfielder is one of the best playmakers in the world, but has often drawn criticism for a perceived propensity to disappear at the crucial moments. Despite the political furor earlier in the week, he will be one of Löw's primary options in Russia.   International games: 89 / Goals: 22 / World Cup tournaments: 2 "Müller always plays," former Bayern coach Louis Van Gaal once said. He is not a forward in the conventional sense, but he always seems to find a way to score goals. He has World Cup pedigree too - he won the Golden Boot in 2010 and the Silver Boot in 2014.   International games: 90 / Tore: 38 / World Cup tournaments: 2 The 29-year-old finally seems set to make his World Cup debut. He just has to get through a training camp in South Tyrol without injuring himself...   International goals: 29 / Goals: 9 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Another Löw favorite, Draxler captained Germany at the Confederations Cup last year. After not getting the playing time he craved at Paris Saint-Germain this term, Draxler is looking to seize his opportunity at international level.   International games: 42 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The soon-to-be Bayern midfielder followed up his impressive Confederations Cup showing with a strong season for Schalke. However, he's likely to be back on the bench with Germany's stars back in the fold.   International games: 14 / Goals: 6 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Speed might as well be Leroy Sané's middle name. He will provide Löw with pace and skill on the wing after winning the Premier League title with Manchester City.   International games: 11 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The 22-year-old winger took on more responsibility at Leverkusen this season. Now he's aiming to cement his place in Löw's squad for years to come.   International games: 14 / Goals: 1 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Leipzig forward is small, quick and explosive — unlike most of Germany's other striking options. The 22-year-old is likely Löw's first choice up front after winning the Golden Boot at last year's Confederations Cup.   International games: 12 / Goals: 7 / World Cup tournaments: 0 The Stuttgart forward has fallen down the pecking order since his terrific performance at Euro 2016. Even at 32, he is still one of Germany's most prolific goal scorers, but he has to be in tip-top shape in order to convince Löw to take him to Russia.   International games: 73 / Goals: 31 / World Cup tournaments: 1 The Freiburg striker was the biggest surprise in Löw's squad announcement on Tuesday despite finishing the Bundesliga season as the join-highest Geman scorer with 15 goals. Petersen hasn't won a senior cap, but will be keen to make up for missing a penalty in the Olympic gold medal match in 2016 (above).   International games: 0 / Goals: 0 / World Cup tournaments: 0 Author: Davis VanOpdorp