Manchester United requested privacy for its legendary ex-manager on Saturday adding that Ferguson would need a "period of intensive care to optimize his recovery." An ambulance had been called to the Scot's home at Cheadle, near Manchester, in northwest England on Saturday morning, reported the Daily Mail newspaper. Read more: Ferguson retires at Manchester United in 2013 From Macclesfield district hospital, Ferguson, 76, had then been transferred to Manchester's Salford Royal hospital with police escort, the Daily Mail added. Son Darren misses match Manchester's Salford Royal hospital Saturday's media alert began when his son Darren, the manager of English third-tier club Doncaster, missed his club's match again Wigan on Saturday because of a "family reason:" Manchester United then confirmed that "Sir Alex Ferguson has undergone emergency surgery for a brain haemorrhage." 'Little whisper' and well-wishers Former United striker and now Southampton manager Mark Hughes said: "I only just got a little whisper earlier on. I was hoping it wasn't true. I wish him all the best." Other United players, past and present, took to social media to wish Ferguson a speedy recovery. "Be strong boss," tweeted United captain Michael Carrick. United winger Jesse Lingard wrote: "Thoughts and prayers sir alex." 'Win this one,' urged Ferguson's well-wishers "Please Be Strong Win this one," added former United goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel. Manchester City, once described by Ferguson as United's "noisy neighbors," wished him a "full and speedy recovery." Last public appearance at Old Trafford for Wenger award Ferguson was last seen publicly on the Old Trafford pitch last Sunday while presenting an award to long-time former adversary Arsene Wenger, who is about to leave Arsenal after almost 22 years. Ferguson, born in Glasgow in 1941, joined United in 1986 from Aberdeen, and went on to lead Manchester United to win 13 Premier League titles and take the club's haul of English championship crowns to a record 20. His crowning moment occurred in 1999 when United won the treble of the Premier League, FA Cup and Champions League. The latter came from two-stoppage-time goals against Bayern Munich, ending 2-1. He also coached Scotland at the World Cup in 1986. With a capacity of just 36,000, Tottenham's White Hart Lane stadium was long due the overhaul it is now set to receive. But it had not hindered their financial success. According to Forbes magazine, the London club are worth 945 million euros ($1 billion). This season saw them finish second in the Premier League and reach the quarterfinals of the UEFA Europa League. Juventus were taught a footballing lesson by Real Madrid in the final of the Champions League. But they still enjoyed a rewarding season, securing a sixth straight Italian championship and the cup for good measure. Yet despite that success, Forbes put their overall value at 1.12 billion euros, a drop of three per cent. As coach of a team worth 1.33 billion euros, Jürgen Klopp has good reason to smile. But Liverpool only managed fourth-place in the Premier League and were knocked out of the FA cup early on. Still, they remain one of the most valuable football brands on the planet. Thanks in the main to a staggering TV deal, the Premier League powerhouse is home to several international heavyweights. Chelsea also have the benefit of being owned by a Russian billionaire. His investments helped propel the club to another championship this season and an overall value of 1.65 billion euros. Arsenal were given a real hiding by Bayern Munich in the Champions League this season, with the German side winning both legs of the last-16 tie 5-1. The Gunners will miss out on that competition next year after only finishing fifth in the Premier League. As a consequence, their value dropped by four per cent to 1.72 billion euros. Manchester City may have been founded way back in 1880 but the club has undergone a radical transformation in recent years. The new owners from Abu Dhabi have invested astronomical sums in players. However, they came up short last season, finishing third in the league and getting knocked out of the FA cup and the Champions League at the last-16 stage. Yet the side is worth 1.85 billion euros. No one can touch Bayern at national level. The record champions have now won five straight Bundesliga titles. But success in the Champions League has proved elusive since 2013. Perhaps that is the reason they trail the top three in the Forbes rankings. Bayern are worth 2.41 billion euros and are set to invest heavily once more this summer. Real Madrid? Only in third? Do not adjust your screens. Despite winning the Spanish title and the Champions League, Forbes only placed the Galaticos in third position. One reason may be the ageing squad (average age of 27.3), as young players with a bright future ahead of them also promise hefty transfer fees. Still, their value is estimated at a princely 3.18 billion euros. Barcelona fell victim to their own lofty ambition this season. A team with world-class players such as Messi and Neymar that was strengthened to the tune of 123 million euros last summer, can reasonably expect to win things. But they had to settle for runners-up spot in the league, a quarterfinal exit in the Champions League and "just" a cup win. Their value still rose to 3.24 billion euros. It may have been known as the "Cup of Losers" a while back, but despite trailing its big brother the Champions League, the Europa League has gained in importance. And the winners of this year's competition are also the most valuable club in the world. Manchester United are worth an incredible 3.28 billion euros. Author: Joscha Weber ipj/bw (AFP, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.