The German company that produces one of the country's well-known chocolate-covered marshmallow sweets has apologized for posting an image of a marshmallow in a bridal dress during the wedding of Britain's Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. Super Dickmann's shared the image of a smiling "Schokokuss" ("chocolate kiss") bride in a cathedral in a Facebook post on Saturday. The image includes the words, "a foam in white," which refers to the Schokokuss's creamy interior and rhymes with the phrase, "a dream in white." The company also wrote in the post's caption: "What are you looking at? Wouldn't you also want to be Meghan today?" Read more: Royal wedding: German broadcaster ZDF accused of racism in its coverage 'Stupid and embarrassing' People quickly denounced the image on social media and accused Super Dickmann's of racism. Markle, a biracial American, married Prince Harry on Saturday in a wedding ceremony watched by millions of people around the world. Many commentators and media outlets focused on Markle's African-American ethnicity in the run-up to the event. Dickmann's spokesman Bernd Roessler apologized on Tuesday and said the post, which has since been taken down, was "stupid and embarrassing" and that the firm had not put enough thought into the decision. Read more: Haribo takes 'racist' sweets off the market In an apology posted on Facebook, the company wrote, "the world of Super Dickmann's is varied and diverse and far removed from racist ideas." The Schokokuss's association with racism is not new. Although no longer politically correct, older generations of Germans called the snack "Negerkuss" ("Negro kiss"). Read more: What we say when we talk about race Great Britain's Prince Harry wed American actor Meghan Markle on May 19, 2018. The couple tied the knot in a formal ceremony at Windsor Castle outside of London that was broadcast around the world. Every detail of the wedding was carefully considered, including the bouquet the bride carried. It consisted of forget-me-nots which had been hand-plucked by Harry in honor of his mother, Princess Diana. Britain's Prince Harry announced his engagement to the US actor Meghan Markle in November. The wedding, announced for May 19, 2018, has been the focus of a media frenzy in the six months since its announcement. In addition to the royal family, 600 A-list guests from both sides of the Atlantic were expected at Windsor Castle for the ceremony. The couple exchanged vows inside St. George's Chapel in a ceremony that diverged slightly from traditional royal nuptials. Meghan Markle was briefly accompanied up the aisle by Harry's father, Prince Charles. The vows did not include the word "obey." And the song to which the newlyweds exited the church was a gospel choir singing a refrain of "Amen." Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will be the 16th royal couple to tie the knot inside Windsor Castle. The tradition began in 1863 with the wedding between the Prince of Wales and Princess Alexandra of Denmark. The second marriage of Harry's father, Prince Charles, to Camilla Parker Bowles, likewise took place in the castle, at Windsor Guildhall, and was followed by a service at St. George's Chapel. Guests were asked to arrive at the chapel more than an hour early. St. George's Chapel can hold up to 800 people, more than enough room to accommodate the couple's guest list, which included no heads of states or politicians in order to avoid controversy. After the ceremony, just 200 of the guests will be on hand at a reception at the nearby Frogmore House. The bridegroom arrived at St. George's Chapel with his brother, Prince William. Both wore traditional military uniforms and made the short trek to the chapel on foot while waving to their adoring public. Harry made the unusual choice to retain a beard, something which may have gone against the dress code in the past. The only member of Meghan Markle's family to have attended the wedding was her mother, Doria Ragland. After overnighting with her only daughter, Doria accompanied Meghan on the drive to the church. The role was a first in a royal wedding, but Meghan sought to include her "rock and best friend" in her big day. In lieu of bridesmaids, Meghan selected ten page boys and flower girls to accompany her down the aisle. Among those children who followed the bride were Prince William's eldest two children: Prince George and Princess Charlotte, who is seen above arriving at the ceremony. Greeted at the chapel by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Meghan Markle wore a dress designed by Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy. Her veil stretched for five meters (16.4 feet) behind her and contained 53 hand-stitched flowers, representing the 53 nations of the Commonwealth. She was followed into the church by ten pageboys and flower girls, including Prince George and Princess Charlotte. After Meghan's father suffered a heart attack earlier in the week, the decision was made upon the bride's suggestion that the groom's father, Prince Charles, accompany her through the Quire to Harry's side. She had no bridesmaids or matron of honor, as she said that choosing one of her many friends for the role would have been too difficult. The happy couple were all smiles when they met the reverend at the altar to exchange vows. The pair agreed to love, honor, comfort and remain faithful to each other, forsaking all others in the hour-long ceremony which included not only recitations from the Bible but also hymns and gospel songs as well as the UK National Anthem. Ring bearer for the ceremony was Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry's best man. The couple chose Cleave and Company to make their wedding rings. The Queen had gifted Meghan a piece of Welsh gold from which her ring was fashioned; Prince Harry's was a textured platinum band. Ahead of the wedding, Markle was baptized into the Church of England. For the ceremony, a number of preachers from the Anglican church provided short sermons, including the Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, primate of the Episcopal Church, whose congregation is based in Chicago. The reverend quoted Martin Luther King Jr. and told the couple, "There's power in love, don't underestimate it." After the ceremony, the couple appeared before the public for the first time in a horse-drawn carriage. They were led through the streets by members of the Household Cavalry, guardians of the monarch, atop horses. Prince Harry was a part of the cavalry and was with some of the soldiers during his duties in Afghanistan. Author: Courtney Tenz Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.