With 85 percent of precincts reporting, conservative candidate Ivan Duque has been declared the winner in the first round of Colombia's presidential election. Duque prevailed over five other candidates on Sunday, garnering 40 percent of the vote. But it wasn't enough to win the contest outright, as he failed to pass the 50 percent mark. The election will now head to a runoff vote on June 17, with Duque facing the second place candidate, who has yet to be determined. Read more: Colombia's refugee crisis a major issue as nation goes to the polls High turnout Voters flooded the polls, according to preliminary data, with over half of the 36 million Colombians participating on Sunday. The election will be crucial to decide the fate of the nation's 2016 peace deal with the FARC rebels, which saw the end of Latin America's longest-running conflict. Candidates presented differing views on whether the deal should be maintained as is, or whether it should be changed. Read more: An overview of Colombia's delicate peace process Duque, who has close ties to former President Alvaro Uribe, has pledged to rewrite the accord, which he sees as too lenient on a group that waged a decades-long war of terror on Colombia. Gustavo Petro, a leftist former mayor of the country's capital, Bogota, was the second option for Colombian voters in public opinion polls a week before the race. Petro backs the peace deal. A former member of the disbanded M-19 rebel group, Petro's candidacy had come as a surprise, as Colombian presidential elections have traditionally been dominated by right-wing candidates. The 2016 signing of the peace accord between the Colombian government and FARC rebels was a major, but not final, step towards ending the decades long conflict. The deal remains a controversial topic in the country and has taken center stage in the current presidential election. The conflict's origins date to the 1920s as a struggle over land ownership, which claimed thousands of lives. The 1948 murder of Jorge Eliécer Gaitán (photo), a liberal politician, threw the country into deep crisis. A result was the formation of a number of resistance groups; the Colombian army launched a campaign against "communist farmers." The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the National Liberation Army (ELN) were founded in 1964. The former wanted to break up the monopoly of land ownership, whereas the ELN formed out of a radical student movement and ideas of liberation theologians such as Camilo Torres (photo). The Colombian government fought both groups with the support the United States. The conflict deepened in the 1980s with the introduction of right-wing paramilitary groups in the service of the land owners against FARC. Both sides were closely linked to drug cartels. Four presidential candidates and countless left-wing politicians were murdered by paramilitaries between 1986 and 1990. In February of 2002, the government cut off peace negotiations with FARC after guerillas hijacked a domestic flight. Days later, the rebels struck again, kidnapping presidential candidate, Ingrid Betancourt. Alvaro Uribe went onto win the election that May and escalated military operations against FARC, ruling out further negotiations. He was reelected in 2007. Betancourt was released in 2008. Juan Manuel Santos was elected president in 2010. Two years later, a law concerning compensation for victims of violence and the return of land came into effect. Peace talks between the government (photo) and FARC officially began that November. At midnight on August 29, 2016, the permanent ceasefire came into force. "A new chapter in Colombia's history begins on August 29," President Santos wrote on Twitter. "We have silenced the weapons. The war with FARC is over!" On September 26, 2016, President Juan Manuel Santos and FARC leader, Rodrigo Londoño, a.k.a. Timochenko, signed the peace treaty, ending the 52-year-old conflict. The signing took place in Cartagena and was attended by 2,500 people. Distrust in FARC manifested itself in a pre-referendum campaign against the peace treaty, led by the conservative ex-president, Álvaro Uribe. To the surprise of many observers, a thin majority of Colombians voted to reject the deal on 2 October, 2016. The international community threw its support behind the treaty's supporters. Just five days after it was rejected in a referendum, President Juan Manuel Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Price. The ceremony took place in Oslo in December 2016 Colombia's parliament ratified the peace treaty on November 30, 2016, following a list of changes to the deal's original language. FARC rebels gave up their weapons in three phases. On 27 June, 2017, at the end of the UN-controlled disarmament process, President Santos wrote: "For me and all Colombians, today is a special day. It's a day when weapons were exchanged for words." The now disarmed, former rebel group chose to renew itself as a political party and disavow violence during a convention on 27 August, 2017. The guerrilla's founder, Rodrigo Londono (photo), was elected the new party's head. He was unable to run for president, however, due to his poor health. For the first time since the end of the armed conflict, FARC put up its members as candidates in the parliamentary election, taking place on March 11, 2018. The party received just 50,000 votes, but secured five seats in the senate and lower house of parliament, respectively, as guaranteed by the peace treaty. The conservative party of former President Álvaro Uribe won the election. Author: Emilia Rojas Sasse jcg/cmk (EFE, AFP, AP)