Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm at the heart of a scandal involving the alleged misuse of millions of people's Facebook data, announced on Wednesday it was closing down. "The company is immediately ceasing all operations," it said in a statement, adding that it had filed for insolvency in the United Kingdom, where it is based, and would shortly do the same in the United States. Read more: Facebook's Cambridge Analytica data scandal: What you need to know The founder of SCL Group, Cambridge Analytica's parent company, had earlier told the Wall Street Journal that both companies would be shutting down. An unnamed source also told the newspaper that SCL Group had made the decision because the firms were losing clients and incurring massive legal fees following the Facebook data revelations. Read more: Shall I stay or shall I go now? The Facebook conundrum Facebook has been slammed for failing to protect the data of more than 50 million users. Their data was used to further conservative political projects, including Brexit and Donald Trump's presidential victory. From a former White House strategist to a Canadian whistle blower, here are the people involved in what some are describing as Facebook's largest data breach. A 28-year-old Canadian data analytics expert first blew the whistle on the scandal to Britain’s Observer newspaper. Christopher Wylie claims he set up the project for Cambridge Analytica and helped forge links with Donald Trump’s campaign team. He revealed that millions of Facebook profiles were hijacked to influence the election. CA says Wylie has been "misrepresenting himself and the company." Cambridge Analytica CEO, Alexander Nix, was one of several senior executives filmed by an undercover reporter from Britain's Channel 4. Nix claimed credit for Donald Trump's 2016 electoral victory. He also said his political consultancy could feed untraceable messages on social media. Executives bragged that the firm could use misinformation, bribery and even prostitutes to help win elections. A Moldovan-born Cambridge University researcher developed a personality app that harvested the personal data of 30 million Facebook users. Aleksandr Kogan said he passed the information to Cambridge Analytica, under assurances that what he was doing was legal. But now he says the research firm and Facebook are scapegoating him over the scandal. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was criticized for waiting for four days to respond to the scandal. His social media network claims to be the victim of the whole saga, insisting it was unaware of the how the data was being used. Still, Zuckerberg has been summoned by the British and European parliaments, while US consumer regulators have launched an investigation into the firm's use of personal data. Trump's former strategist Steve Bannon helped develop the populist, anti-Washington message that helped the billionaire win the White House. A founding member of right-wing outlet Breitbart News, Bannon is a former board member of Cambridge Analytica and brought in wealthy businessman Robert Mercer as a financial backer. He left the White House last August and Trump has since cut him off. Author: Nik Martin Facebook scandal In March, The New York Times and UK-based Observer reported that Cambridge Analytica had gained access to more than 80 million Facebook users' data. The company reportedly used the information to help US President Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and the Leave campaign in the 2016 Brexit referendum. It suspended its CEO Alexander Tayler in April. The revelations also rocked Facebook and led its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, to publicly apologize for the data breach. Read more: Facebook could face fine if German users affected by Cambridge Analytica data breach 'Unfounded accusations' On Wednesday, Cambridge Analytica said it had been "the subject of numerous unfounded accusations" and "vilified for activities that are not only legal but also widely accepted" in online advertising. An internal investigation, the company added, had revealed the allegations to be false. Despite its conviction, the company said it was closing down because a "siege of media coverage has driven away virtually all of the company’s customers and suppliers." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wUiG