North and South Korea's leaders held a previously unannounced summit at the "truce village" in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) on the border between their two countries on Saturday, South Korea's presidency announced. South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un reportedly met for two hours at the village in Panmunjom to share their views on the pending summit between Kim and US President Donald Trump. Trump pulled out of the summit this week in a letter to Kim, but said yesterday that it may still take place. South Korea's Blue House, the president's office, said Moon would present the outcome of their meeting on Sunday. "They exchanged views and discussed ways to implement the Panmunjom Declaration and to ensure a successful US-North Korea summit," the office said in a statement. The Blue House also posted pictures of the meeting on Twitter, showing the two leaders embracing. Another picture showed Moon shaking hands with Kim's sister Kim Yo Jong. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yLS1 White House team to travel to Singapore The Saturday meeting between Moon and Kim has revived hope that the US-North Korea summit could happen as previously planned. A White House team was reportedly heading to Singapore to prepare for a possible meeting between Trump and Kim. White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the team will be led by Joe Hagin, deputy chief of staff for operations. In a tweet, Trump said the summit was "likely" to happen on June 12. "We're talking to them now," Trump said of the North Koreans. "They very much want to do it. We'd like to do it." Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin urged all sides involved in the Korean conflict to show restraint. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who held talks with Putin in Moscow, said it was vital for Pyongyang to completely denuclearize. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said in his New Year’s address that his country was in the "final stages" of launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). US President-elect Donald Trump, whose inauguration was set for January 20, said on Twitter: "North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the US. It won't happen!" North Korea tested its first ICBM — the Hwasong-14 — on US Independence Day. Kim reportedly told his scientists that "the US would be displeased" by the launch. This, he said, was because "it was given a 'package of gifts' ... on its 'Independence Day.'" Trump wrote on Twitter in response: "North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?" Pyongyang tested its second Hwasong-14 weeks later. Experts estimated the new rocket could reach the US mainland. Trump lashed out at North Korean ally China, writing in a Tweet: "I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk." Trump appeared to threaten swift military action against Pyongyang when he told reporters: "North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen." North Korea responded by threatening to fire a medium-range ballistic missile into the waters around Guam, a US territory in the Pacific Ocean. It did not follow through. Pyongyang sparked international outcry when it test-launched a mid-range ballistic missile — the Hwasong-12 — over Japan. The UN Security Council unanimously condemned the test. Trump said in a White House statement: "Threatening and destabilizing actions only increase the North Korean regime’s isolation in the region and among all nations of the world. All options are on the table." North Korea announced it had successfully tested its sixth nuclear weapon. Pyongyang said it was a powerful type of nuclear weapon called a hydrogen bomb and that it could be placed on top of a ballistic missile. Trump wrote on Twitter: "The United States is considering, in addition to other options, stopping all trade with any country doing business with North Korea." In his first speech at the United Nations, Trump called North Korea a "rogue state" and said Washington "will have no choice than to totally destroy North Korea" if Pyongyang failed to stop its nuclear weapons program. Referring to Kim, he added: "Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime." Kim called Trump a "mentally-deranged US dotard" two days later. North Korea test-fired its third ICBM of 2017. Pyongyang claimed it was a new missile, the Hwasong-15, which was superior to the Hwasong-14 and could hit any target on the US mainland. The US urged allies, including Germany, to break diplomatic ties with North Korea. Berlin ignored the call. Trump also called Kim a "sick puppy." Kim said in his 2018 New Year's address that the North had completed its nuclear weapons program and that a "nuclear button" was on his desk at all times. Trump wrote two days later on Twitter: "Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" South Korean President Moon Jae-in welcomed Kim's sister, Kim Yo Jong, at the presidential house in the South Korean capital. She handed a letter to Moon inviting him to meet the North Korean leader in Pyongyang. Tensions appeared to be thawing. Seoul and Pyongyang had already agreed to send a unified hockey team to compete at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. South Korean National Security Adviser Chung Eui-yong led a delegation on March 5 to Pyongyang to discuss the potential for peace talks. The next day, Chung said both sides had agreed to hold a joint summit in April and set up a telephone hotline between the two capitals. He also said Pyongyang would agree to stop its nuclear weapons and missile tests if the US agreed to hold talks with the North. Chung flew on to Washington, D.C. to speak with Trump. After the meeting, Chung told reporters the US president had agreed to meet Kim by May. Trump later wrote on Twitter: "no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!" Foreign leaders welcomed the historic breakthrough. A week before the scheduled meeting at the border between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, Moon said North Korea wanted "an end to the hostile relations" and had expressed a commitment to "complete denuclearization" of the peninsula. The next day, the telephone hotline was connected for the first time since February 2016, so Moon and Kim could talk directly. Kim announced North Korea would stop nuclear and missile tests. Kim said: "We no longer need any nuclear test or test launches of intermediate and intercontinental range ballistic missiles, and because of this the northern nuclear test site has finished its mission." However, no mention was made of its stored nuclear materials and equipment. Kim and Moon Jae-in meet in the border town of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that has divided the two Koreas since the Korean War in 1953. The two leaders vowed to work towards a nuclear-free Korea and pledged an end to war. It was the first time a North Korean leader had set foot across the border since the 1950s and paves the diplomatic way for a Trump-Kim meeting in May or June. South Korea announces its propaganda loudspeakers are to be switched off for good. They had been silenced temporarily ahead of the inter-Korean summit, which prompted the North to halt its broadcasts, too. Pyongyang also said it would adjust its time zone to that of the South as a symbolic gesture. North Korea has been half an hour behind the South since 2015. After North Korea slammed US Vice President Mike Pence for comparing North Korea and Libya, Donald Trump abruptly canceled the summit. Trump said the move was due to "tremendous anger and open hostility" displayed by Pyongyang. Author: Alexander Pearson, Nicole Goebel Back-and-forth over summit Saturday's meeting was the second time Kim and Moon came together in the past month following their first, historic summit on April 27 in the DMZ. Then, the two leaders made a broad declaration to improve ties and implement peace. Relations between the two Koreas cooled in recent weeks, with Pyongyang canceling a high-level meeting with Seoul over South Korea's participation in military exercises with the United States. South Korea, which has been brokering talks between the US and North Korea, was surprised by Trump's decision to call off the summit with Kim. In his letter, Trump cited hostility in North Korean rhetoric as a reason for calling it off. Read more: North Korea blows up tunnels at nuclear test site The German government made an appeal to the international community on Friday, saying that Trump's decision to pull out of the summit underscores the importance of maintaining pressure on North Korea's leadership. Germany's deputy government spokeswoman, Martina Fietz, said Berlin continued to support "the complete, irreversible and verifiable denuclearization" of North Korea. She also noted that high-level talks are an important step towards a de-escalation of tensions on the Korean peninsula. Should the highly-anticipated meeting between Trump and Kim occur, it is expected to take place on June 12 in Singapore. rs, shs/ng (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.