Fortepianist Ronald Brautigam explained to DW the complex relationship between those two giants of music: "I know there was friction when Beethoven wrote his three piano sonatas opus 2," said Brautigam. "Haydn wanted that he put on the title page: 'By Ludwig van Beethoven, Student of Joseph Haydn.' Beethoven of course refused that. Yet it is said that Haydn was the only one for whom Beethoven had knelt once. What Haydn did for the piano sonata, for the piano trio, the symphony and the string quartet: These are all things that Beethoven picked up and continued. You could say that Haydn did all the field work and Beethoven could just take it from there and get on with it." His orchestral musicians called him "Papa Haydn," and the sobriquet stuck — to this day Along with Beethoven and Haydn, the program also includes a piece by Johann Wilhelm Wilms, for whom his Dutch compatriot Ronald Brautigam has only measured praise: "The piece is not a masterwork. It's enjoyable to listen to, and after 10 minutes you've forgotten all about it. But Wilms was a very good craftsman. If you hear it for the first time, you think, 'Oh, that's very pleasant, very nice and very gentle, some nice ideas in it.' But that's the problem, if you compare a composer like him with Beethoven." Also up: a piece that’s been hacked through by nearly every piano student since the age of Beethoven. But if anyone can make Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata sound fresh, it's Brautigam. It's said that Beethoven's acquaintance Elisabeth Röckel is the "Elise" in the famous piano piece "Für Elise" Joseph Haydn Sonata No. 60 in C Major, Hob. XVI:50 (English Sonata No. 1) Johann Wilhelm Wilms Einmal in meinem achten Jahr (Once in my eighth year), Ariette performed by:  Ronald Brautigam, fortepiano Ludwig van Beethoven Variations in A Major, WoO 71 Recorded by Deutsche Welle, Bonn (DW) at La Redoute in Bonn on September 29, 2017 The sculls of Schubert, Haydn and Beethoven. Meanwhile, their music sounds as fresh as the day it was composed Ludwig van Beethoven Sonata No. 14 in C-sharp Minor, op. 27, No. 2 (Sonata quasi una fantasia / Moonlight Sonata) Ludwig van Beethoven Für Elise (encore) performed by:  Ronald Brautigam, fortepiano Recorded by Deutsche Welle, Bonn (DW) at La Redoute in Bonn on September 27, 2017