French President Emmanuel Macron was recognized for his contributions to European cohesion and integration on Thursday, as he received the Charlemagne Prize in the German city of Aachen. In his acceptance speech, Macron praised the European project for maintaining a "miraculous" 70 years of peace on the continent and outlined his vision for the future. The French president called for more unity among member states and warned that the divisions that appeared during the eurozone and migrant crises risked undermining the EU project. Macron insisted that a common eurozone budget was crucial to guaranteeing EU unity. He urged Germany to get over its "fetish" for budget surpluses and work with him on forging deeper economic co-operations. Read more: How France's Emmanuel Macron wants to reform the EU "We need an ambitious European budget and a eurozone with its own budget allowing for investments and convergence between member states," he said. "We have to fight for a new and stronger Europe ... Now is the time." Macron also called for a stronger Europe on the diplomatic front. "Europe has to take its fate into its own hands," the French president said. "Because one country breaks its promise doesn't mean we have to change our course," he added, implicitly referring to the US' decision to quit the Iran nuclear deal. "If we let others decide our policies for us, then we are not creditable anymore, and our populations will not be seen creditable either." Read more: French President Emmanuel Macron for broader Iran deal Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xTGg The board of directors for the Charlemagne Prize said they were honoring Macron "in recognition of his vision of a new Europe" and his "decisive stance" against nationalism and isolationism. The bishop of Aachen, Helmut Dieser, opened the ceremony in Aachen Cathedral, congratulating Macron for winning last year's French presidential election on a pro-European platform. "We therefore offer you all our respect and gratitude," the bishop said. The annual Charlemagne Prize commends public figures who promote European unity. It is named after the founder of the Holy Roman Empire, who launched a series of wars and political reforms to build a continental European empire. Charlemagne was crowned at Aachen in the year 800. On May 10, French President Emmanuel Macron received the Charlemagne Prize for European Unity in the German city of Aachen. The prize's board of directors said they chose to honor Macron "in recognition of his vision of a new Europe" and his "decisive stance" against nationalism and isolationism. Since entering office one year ago, Macron has unabashedly pushed for European cohesion and EU reform. The city of Aachen's Charlemagne Prize is named after the important medieval ruler who became the first Holy Roman Emperor (747-814). Under his leadership the Frankish Empire expanded to become a great power, abosrbing parts of present-day Germany. France and Germany are not the only entities to claim him as a forefather; during his lifetime, he was known as "Pater Europae," or "Father of Europe." Macron delivered his message to the perfect audience when he spoke to students at the Sorbonne University in Paris in September 2017. In a speech focused on the EU, he emphasized the advantages of Europe's many different languages. Macron, who speaks English fluently, also said he would like to see every European master at least two European languages by the age of 24. It was one of Macron's central campaign promises: after turning 18, French youths will receive a one-off payment of €500 ($594) from the French state. Known as a "Culture Pass," the money is supposed to help the teens take advantage of cultural offerings according to their own preferences — whether this means a Spotify subscription, a trip to Barcelona or season tickets to the theater. The president was the guest of honor at the opening of the Frankfurt Book Fair in October 2017, which focused on French culture, literature and language. In his speech, Macron underlined the very positive literary relations between his home nation and Germany. Both countries would benefit from one another's literary output for centuries, he said. Leonardo da Vinci's famous oil painting may get lent out to a Louvre branch in Lens, northern France, as part of Macron's push to decentralize French culture. If that actually happens, the Paris Louvre would lose its daily horde of visitors seeking to get a glimpse of the famous mysteriously smiling woman. In addition, simply transporting the painting would cost some €35 million ($41.6 million). In November 2017 Macron gave a speech in Burkina Faso in which he called for European nations to return cultural heritage pieces that had been obtained during the colonial era. His words unleashed heated debate in Paris and Berlin. Despite his urging, the Berlin Humboldt Forum cultural center (above), set to open in 2019, said it would still include some 75,000 African exhibits in its collection. Author: null Myriel Desgranges (cmb) Merkel honors Macron for stirring European enthusiasm German Chancellor Angela Merkel gave a speech in Macron's honor during the prize giving ceremony, praising Macron's "contagious enthusiasm" for the European project. "He has clear ideas on where and when Europe needs to evolve and has the capacity to inspire young Europeans," she said. The German chancellor also commended Macron for defending the values of freedom and cohesion at a time when "authoritarian ideologies are luring people back to the past." Merkel stressed the need for a strong pan-European foreign policy, because the bloc could no longer rely on the US to "protect it." In light of the US' decision this week to quit the Iran nuclear deal and Thursday's confrontation between Israeli and Iran-backed forces in Syria, the chancellor described the situation in the Middle East as "truly a matter of war and peace." Other prominent guests included the heads of government of Spain, Luxembourg and Bulgaria. Also in attendance were last year's prize winner, British historian Timothy Garton Ash, and former German Social Democrat leader Martin Schulz, who won the award in 2015. Award premature? In an interview with DW on Wednesday, Macron said he had "a lot of hope" that the two sides would agree on a common EU plan. "I think that the chancellor and her government are going to join us in this historic moment and work together for a stronger Europe and a more united and more sovereign and more democratic Europe," the French president said. A study published on Wednesday by German broadcaster ARD found that a majority of Germans support Macron's proposed EU reforms, but thought that his plans for deepening EU economic and financial cooperation went too far. Political analysts, however, were not hesitant to point out that Macron's award comes despite his proposed EU reforms having so far gained little traction. Macron has made a series of prospective EU reforms one of the focal points of his presidency. Notable goals include the creation of a common eurozone budget and a European finance minister post, a joint military "rapid reaction force," and a new EU tax regime targeting internet technology giants. Read more: Opinion: Germany's boom and Europe's problems Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xHBm However, the French president has far from won unanimous support for his lofty policy plans. His ambitions for the eurozone face particularly stiff resistance from Germany, and especially from within Merkel's own conservative Christian Democratic Party. Nevertheless, Macron and Merkel have promised to present a common roadmap on the future of the EU ahead of the next major leaders' summit in Brussels in June. DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/rt (dpa, AFP, KNA)