On Tuesday, a 35-year-old Iranian man entered an administrative building in the city of Göppingen in the German state of Baden-Württemberg and asked for assistance, showing employees there a government letter denying him asylum. Although the women assured him they would look into the situation, the man reportedly became aggressive. Read more: Merkel toughens stance on rejected asylum seekers He then proceeded to remove a bottle containing liquid out of his backpack, pour it over his head and light it. Police say that the women were able to get to safety before the man went up in flames. Another government employee used towels from a cleaning cart to put out the fire. Police in the nearby city of Ulm say the man, who was flown to a burn clinic, sustained serious injuries. Günter Stolz of the Göppingen finance department told the German dpa news agency that employees had been shocked by the events that unfolded in the building's foyer: "A lot of people heard the man screaming." The building had to be partially evacuated after the incident and was eventually closed to the public for the remainder of the day. On April 20, 2018, a number of employees at the regional BAMF office in Bremen were alleged to have illegally accepted hundreds of asylum applicants between 2013 and 2017, mainly from Iraq's Yazidi community. Bremen public prosecutors announced that six people, including the former director of the Bremen BAMF office, were under investigation for alleged corruption in about 1,200 cases. Steffen Seibert, spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, reacted swiftly to the allegations, saying it would be wrong to speculate on what consequences the incident could have for the BAMF immigration offices. He said that the "extremely serious allegations" would first have to be resolved. The BAMF scandal could be a major embarrassment to Chancellor Merkel's open-door policy to refugees. A few weeks into the scandal, German media reported that 13 further regional BAMF branches were going to be subject to checks regarding their approval of asylum applications. The branches had apparently come under scrutiny for showing noticeable differences in the number of asylum applications accepted or rejected in comparison to other offices. Some 8,000 applications will have to be re-checked. A month into the scandal, details emerged that BAMF had been informed about the possible improprieties in Bremen earlier than thought, German news magazine Der Spiegel reported. The irregularities were reportedly flagged back in February 2017. In the light of the growing scandal, BAMF head Jutta Cordt announced that some 18,000 asylum decisions made in Bremen since 2000 now had to be re-checked. German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer meanwhile confirmed that he would testify before a special meeting of the Bundestag internal affairs committee to be convened at the request of the Green Party. The committee hopes to avoid a full-blown parliamentary investigation, which two other opposition parties — the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) and the center-right FDP — are calling for. This might be the man who would have to answer some serious questions if a comprehensive parliamentary inquiry should be launched. Thomas de Maiziere was Germany's interior minister until the beginning of the year, overseeing the management of asylum application at the height of the refugee crisis. De Maiziere, an ally of Merkel's, criticized the shortcomings of the assessment system in the past. On May 23, the German Interior Ministry prohibited the regional BAMF office in Bremen from deciding whether individual refugees will be given asylum in the country. Seehofer said an internal BAMF report had shown that "legal regulations and internal policies" had been "disregarded" at the center. The city of Bremen has said Germany's Federal Criminal Police are now part of the inquiry into the wide-ranging corruption. The decision came after a crisis meeting on the scandal surrounding the city's asylum procedure for refugees. Author: Sertan Sanderson js/msh (dpa) 