Italy's prime ministerial candidate, Giuseppe Conte, said Sunday he would not be leading the next Italian government. "Giuseppe Conte has given up the mandate to form a government, given to him on May 23," an official from the presidential palace said. Initial reports suggest right-wing League party leader Matteo Salvini had refused to accept a presidential veto on his choice for economy minister, the 81-year-old euroskeptic economist Paolo Savona. Talking to reporters after he informed President Sergio Mattarella of his decision, Conte said he "gave the maximum effort, attention, to carry out this task with the full collaboration" of would-be coalition partners — the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and far-right League. Fresh elections? Earlier in the day, Conte met Mattarella with his list of ministers in a bid to end the country's political stalemate. But the two could not agree on Savona's role in what would have been Western Europe's first populist government. Mattarella is staunchly pro-Europe. Even before the two had finished with their meeting, League's Salvini said the only option now was to hold another election, probably later this year. "In a democracy, if we are still in democracy, there's only one thing to do, let the Italians have their say," Salvini told his supporters in central Italy. Salvini and 5-Star leader Luigi Di Maio also met Mattarella informally on Sunday to try to find a solution. Di Maio said the president's rejection of the coalition's choice for economy minister was "unacceptable." "It's an institutional clash without precedent," Di Maio said on a livestreamed Facebook video. "What's the point of going to vote if it's the ratings agencies that decide?" The 5-Star leader also suggested that Mattarella could be impeached. "I hope that we can give the floor to Italians as soon as possible, but first we need to clear things up. First the impeachment of Mattarella... then to the polls," Di Maio said on Italian television. Economic consideration Mattarella said he refused to approve Savona's appointment as that would have "alarmed markets and investors, Italians and foreigners." "Every day, the [bond] spread goes up, it raises our debt costs," he said. Savona has likened Italy to being in a "cage" of austerity restrictions favored by fellow eurozone member Germany. Mattarella's office said the president has invited Carlo Cottarelli, a former senior director at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), for talks on Monday. The announcement suggested Mattarella may ask him to head a technocrat government. ap/jm (AFP, dpa, Reuters, AP) Giuseppe Conte is a little-known law professor at Florence University, viewed as a League and 5 Star Movement (M5S) technocratic compromise candidate for prime minister. Conte is not a lawmaker and has no political experience. He will have to manage a potentially unwieldy alliance between League and M5S, two parties that have not ruled at the national level. Conte is an expert on civil and commercial law. 5-Star Movement leader Luigi Di Maio (L) tapped him before the election for minister of the newly created public administration and simplification portfolio. Conte has worked as a lawyer and academic, with "refinement of legal studies" at Yale, New York University and Sorbonne, among other universities, according to his CV. The M5S leader secured his party 32 percent of the vote in March elections. He is tapped to become labor and welfare minister, or economic minister. Either position would empower M5S to pursue an anti-austerity program that could bring it up against the EU. Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in March elections. A former member of the European Parliament, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini looks set to take over the Interior Ministry, which handles policing and immigration issues. The M5S and League alliance could be difficult to hold as they seek to implement a controversial agenda. The two parties have only a marginal majority in parliament. Italian governments are notoriously fragile and unstable. Their government would be the 58th since World War II. Silvio Berlusconi (R) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electorial alliance including League in the March elections that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinising opposition." President Sergio Mattarella must agree to the parties' prime minister nomination, who must then be approved by parliament. A former constitutional court judge, Mattarella is able to veto any legislation from the next government that is unconstitutional. Author: Chase Winter Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.