Ritual slaughter of animals without stunning must be done only in approved slaughterhouses, the European Union's top court ruled on Tuesday. The verdict by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) is a setback for several Muslim organizations and mosques, who had argued that the requirement infringed their right to religious freedom as there were not enough approved slaughterhouses to meet the high demand during festivals. What did the court say? Violation of EU law: The Tuesday verdict concerns temporary slaughterhouses approved by the Belgian authorities in the Flemish region to meet the high demand during Islamic Eid al-Adha (Feast of the Sacrifice) festival. The government in 2014 said it would no longer approve temporary slaughterhouses because it violated EU law. What is the EU law on ritual slaughter? A 2009 EU regulation says that animals must be stunned before being slaughtered. The law, however, makes an exception in the case of ritual slaughters provided such slaughters are carried out in approved slaughterhouses. Every year, millions of practicing Muslims across the world fast, pray and give alms in observance of Islam's holiest month. From firing off cannon to lunar sightings, DW explores how Muslims mark the occasion and what it means to the faithful. The sighting of the new moon of Ramadan is practiced by religious authorities across the globe to determine the beginning of the month of fasting. While some observe the new moon with telescopes, others use the naked eye, which is why Ramadan may begin on different days in certain parts of the world. Prayer is often considered a fundamental part of observing the month of fasting. Ramadan traditionally begins with a special prayer known as "Tarawih" on the eve of the holy month. During Ramadan, practicing Muslims generally participate in communal prayer at their local mosque. The month of fasting represents a period of spiritual discipline and purification. As such, reading and reciting the Quran, Islam's holy book, form an integral part of the traditional rituals observed during Ramadan. The Quran is believed to have been revealed to the Prophet Muhammad during the month of Ramadan. While Islam offers prescribed rituals to observe during Ramadan, many places have local traditions that coincide with the month of fasting. In Sarajevo, a cannon is traditionally fired to mark the breaking of the fast on each day of Ramadan. In Egypt, displaying a decorated lantern known as a "fanous" is part of the tradition. After a long day without food and water, many Muslims traditionally break their fast with a date, the nutritious fruit with which the Prophet Muhammad is believed to have broken his fast. Afterwards, observing Muslims often partake in a communal dinner known as "Iftar." The celebration of Eid al-Fitr, or the festival of breaking the fast, marks the official end of Ramadan. From indulging in sweets to offering gifts to loved ones, Muslims celebrate the end of the fasting month with large meals prepared for friends and family. It is considered a joyful time in which to be generous and kind to others. Author: Lewis Sanders IV ap/rt (epd, dpa, Reuters)