The US ambassador to Israel was the center of controversy on Tuesday after he was photographed receiving a doctored image of east Jerusalem in which the revered Al-Aqsa Mosque had been erased. The picture, published Tuesday night by ultra-Orthodox Jewish news site Kikar Hashabbat, showed the mosque replaced by a simulation of a Jewish temple. The newly-opened US Embassy in Jerusalem said Ambassador David Friedman was tricked into being pictured with the photoshopped image. The embassy said the image was "thrust" in front of the diplomat without his consent during a visit to a charity in Bnei Brak, near Tel Aviv. The Al-Aqsa Mosque is one of Islam's holiest sites; Muslims believe the Prophet Mohammed ascended to heaven from the structure. Known to Muslims as al-Haram al-Sharif ("Noble Sanctuary") and as Temple Mount to Jews, the larger compound surrouding the mosque sits on land sacred to both religions. It is considered the holiest site in Judaism. The site in Israel-annexed east Jerusalem has been a frequent flashpoint for violence between Israelis and Palestinians and a major source of tension in the decades-old conflict. Read more: Little optimism in Middle East conflict, Israeli historian says 'Religious conflict' The controversial picture was published by several Palestinian newspapers on Wednesday. Senior Palestinian official Saeb Erekat was quoted in Palestinian daily Al-Quds as saying that the United States was turning the Israeli-Palestinian dispute "into a religious conflict." Tensions have worsened between Israel and the Palestinians in the aftermath of the US Embassy move to Jerusalem and the death of over 100 Palestinians in Israeli fire during mass protests along the Gaza border. According to the Old Testament, David, king of the two partial kingdoms of Judah and Israel, won Jerusalem from the Jebusites around 1000 BC. He moved his seat of government to Jerusalem, making it the capital and religious center of his kingdom. The Bible says David's son Solomon built the first temple for Yahweh, the God of Israel. Jerusalem became the center of Judaism. The Neo-Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar II (3rd from the left) conquered Jerusalem in 597 and again in 586 BC, as the Bible says. He took King Jehoiakim (5th from the right) and the Jewish upper class into captivity, sent them to Babylon and destroyed the temple. After Persian king Cyrus the Great seized Babylon, he allowed the exiled Jews to return home to Jerusalem and to rebuild their temple. The Roman Empire ruled Jerusalem from the year 63 CE. Resistance movements rapidly formed amongst the population, so that in 66 CE, the First Jewish–Roman War broke out. The war ended 4 years later, with a Roman victory and another destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. The Romans and Byzantines ruled Palestine for approximately six hundred years. Over the course of the Islamic conquest of Greater Syria, Muslim armies also reached Palestine. By order of the Caliph Umar (in the picture), Jerusalem was besieged and captured in the year 637 CE. In the following era of Muslim rule, various, mutually hostile and religiously divided rulers presided over the city. Jerusalem was often besieged and changed hands several times. From 1070 CE onward, the Muslim Seljuk rulers increasingly threatened the Christian world. Pope Urban II finally called for the First Crusade, which took Jerusalem in 1099 CE. Over a period of 200 years a total of seven crusades set out to conquer the city as it changed hands between Muslim and Christian rule. In 1244 the crusaders finally lost control of the city and it once again became Muslim. After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by the Ottomans, Jerusalem became the administrative seat of an Ottoman administrative district in 1535. In its first decades of Ottoman rule, the city saw a clear revival. With a British victory over Ottoman troops in 1917, Palestine fell under British rule. Jerusalem went to the British without a fight. After World War II, the British gave up their Palestinian Mandate. The UN voted for a division of the country in order to create a home for the survivors of the Holocaust. Some Arab states then went to war against Israel and conquered part of Jerusalem. Until 1967, the city was divided into an Israeli west and a Jordanian east. In 1967, Israel waged the Six-Day War against Egypt, Jordan and Syria. Israel took control of the Sinai, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Israeli paratroopers gained access to the Old City and stood at the Wailing Wall for the first time since 1949. East Jerusalem is not officially annexed, but rather integrated into the administration. Israel has not denied Muslims access to its holy places. The Temple Mount is under an autonomous Muslim administration; Muslims can enter, visit the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent Al-Aqsa mosque and pray there. Jerusalem remains to this day an obstacle to peace between Israel and Palestine. In 1980, Israel declared the whole city its "eternal and indivisible capital." After Jordan gave up its claim to the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1988, the state of Palestine was proclaimed. Palestine also declares, in theory, Jerusalem as its capital. Author: Ines Eisele The US Embassy said it did not support any change to the status of Jerusalem's holy places. The US Embassy has demanded an apology from the charity Achiya, whose official presented the controversial picture to Friedman. The charity told Israeli media that the official had acted on his own initiative without consulting others. "We regret that a petty political gesture spoiled this event," it added. ap/kms (AFP)