A grand jury in Manhattan on Wednesday indicted disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein on charges of rape and criminal sex act, bringing prosecutors one step closer to putting the producer on trial. Weinstein has watched his career collapse after scores of women accused him of gross sexual misconduct, which gave rise to the #MeToo movement against sexual misconduct. Harvey Weinstein has been accused by dozens of women of sexual harassment or sexual assaults, including rape. Under investigation by police departments in New York, London, Beverly Hills and Los Angeles, Weinstein denies all allegations of non-consensual sex, but apologized for causing "a lot of pain." The case prompted many other women to come forward. PBS and CBS host Charlie Rose is accused by several women of unwanted sexual advances, walking naked in front of them or making lewd phone calls. He has apologized for his behavior but questioned the accuracy of some of the allegations. Meanwhile, Journalist Mark Halperin is accused of harassing about 12 women while at ABC News. US Senate candidate Roy Moore, a Republican from Alabama, is accused of sexually assaulting two teenagers and pursuing relationships with several others decades ago, when he was in his 30s. He has denied the allegations. Former President George H.W. Bush was accused of patting seven women below the waist. The 93-year-old has issued apologies through a spokesman "to anyone he has offended." A senior figure in the US Democratic party, Minnesota Senator Al Franken is accused of forcibly kissing radio personality Leeann Tweeden and groping her while she slept during a 2006 tour to Afghanistan to entertain US troops. The former comedian who became a senator in 2009 has apologized, saying he felt "disgusted" with himself. Ex-USA gymnastics team doctor Lawrence "Larry" Nassar is accused of abusing over 100 female athletes. He pleaded guilty to multiple counts of criminal sexual conduct and could face 25 years in prison. Three of his victims were under 13 years old. Israeli IOC member Alex Gilady is accused by two women of rape and by two others of inappropriate conduct. He denies the rape accusations. Actor Kevin Spacey has been accused by at least 24 men of sexual misconduct or assault. London police are investigating two sexual assaults and he was fired from "House of Cards." Dustin Hoffman is accused by a woman of harassing her when she was 17. He has apologized for his behavior. Writer-director James Toback is accused by hundreds of women of sexual harassment. He denies the allegations. Author: Jo Harper What we know: Read more: What do Europeans consider sexual harassment? American actor Rose McGowan has said Weinstein raped her and that she was later "blacklisted" in Hollywood for speaking out 'Crimes of violence' Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance has hailed the grand jury's decision as a step in the right direction, saying: "This indictment brings the defendant another step closer to accountability for the crimes of violence with which he is now charged." But Ben Brafman, Weinstein's lawyer, believes his client will make it out unscathed, saying: "We will soon formally move to dismiss the indictment and if this case actually proceeds to trial, we expect Mr. Weinstein to be acquitted." #MeToo: From Italy to the US, more than 75 women have accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct, including assault and rape. The women include Angelina Jolie, Rose McGowan and Salma Hayak. However, many of the cases have passed the statute of limitations, making it near impossible to prosecute. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2mYy1 ls/rc (Reuters, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here.