The Oceania Football Confederation (OFC) has banned a Fijian player for racially abusing a white referee during a club soccer match. Referee Campbell-Kirk Waugh of New Zealand reported Samuela Drudru of Lautoka FC to the OFC disciplinary committee for using discriminatory language when Drudru was sent off during a semi-final game of the OFC Champions League on April 22. Read more: Russian soccer club Spartak Moscow under fire for 'racist' tweet "Taking into account all the circumstances of the case and the gravity of the incident, the committee decided to suspend the player for seven matches," the OFC said, without detailing what exactly Drudru had said. OFC rules bar derogatory remarks "on account of race, colour, language, religion or ethnic origin". The Fiji Broadcasting Corporation reported the Drudru had used the term "white people" before he left the field. Read more: British soccer fans given suspended sentence and fined for racist incident in Paris The committee also fined him NZ$7,500 ($5,200, €4,350) and barred him from entering soccer stadiums during the seven-game ban. Lautoka FC went on to beat Marist FC of the Solomon Islands during the semi-final, but were beaten 6-0 in the first leg of the final against Wellington FC. The second leg will take place in Fiji on Sunday. Read more: FIFA comes under fire for disbanding anti-racism task force amp/aw (AFP, AP) At the Summer Olympics in Berlin, 1936, track athlete Jesse Owens arrived to compete for the US, which was intent on showing the racist Nazis that athletes of every color can be outstanding. And with four gold medals and a new Olympic record, that's just what Owens did. Director Stephen Hopkins' 2016 biographical sports drama "Race" is a tribute to Owens. German Sinto boxer Rukeli Trollmann won the German light-heavyweight title in 1933, which back then was a total taboo for the regime. Trollmann was stripped of his title. Not one to give in, he showed up for his next fight with a powdered face, his hair dyed blond. Director Eike Besuden's 2012 film "Gibsy" mixes documentary and feature film elements to commemorate this true story. In 1971, racism was a part of everyday life in America's southern states. Based on real events, Boaz Yakin's 2000 sports drama "Remember the Titans" is the story of two high school football teams that are forced to become a unit. No easy task for the coaches, played by Denzel Washington and Will Patton: One team has white players only, the other team is made up of African-Americans. "Playoff" by director Eran Riklis is set in the early 1980s. In the film, an Israeli basketball coach named Max Stoller is hired to turn the West German national team into contenders for the Los Angeles Olympics. Israelis accused him of being a traitor, but he was not to be deterred. The 2011 movie retells the true story of legendary Israeli basketball coach Ralph "Mr. Basketball" Klein. In 1947, Jackie Robinson became the first black baseball player to sign with Major League, which was still all white. He consequently faced a great deal of hostility and a petition from fellow players to have him removed. Brian Helgeland's film "42" tells the sports legend's story. He wore jersey number 42 - a number that has in the meantime been officially "retired" in his honor. Author: Bettina Baumann / db