When Jorge Mario Bergoglio, the then Archbishop of Buenos Aires, become Pope and sovereign of the Vatican City in Rome in 2013, he was soon after named Time Magazine's Person of the Year for taking the "the papacy out of the palace and into the streets." Since dubbed the "People's Pope," the person behind the highly popular pontiff has now been revealed by German filmmaker Wim Wenders in his documentary film, "Pope Francis: A Man of his Word." Based on several intimate interviews with the Catholic church head, and including footage of the Pope travelling between a Brazilian street mass, a refugee camp in Greece and beyond, the film is a unique papal portrait, as Wenders told DW. DW: What inspired you to make this particular documentary? Wim Wenders: I experienced the fantastic communication skills of this man, and saw how he seeks contact with everyone, and how he manages to succeed in something where most people fail; that is, opening oneself up to the others while also being there for them in a loving way. Read more: Up close with Pope Francis in Wim Wenders' film at Cannes That's when I thought that I had been very privileged by spending a total of eight hours at his side while looking him in the eye, and I thought that I wouldn't be able to keep that experience to myself.  Then we shot the film in a way that this immediate communication, this closeness, would reach each single viewer. The Pope is looking into the eyes of everyone who watches the film. While others are putting up fences against refugees, Pope Francis embraces them How did you want to portray Pope Francis? I thought to myself that this man has very ambitious goals, and that he demands a lot from himself by having called himself Francis. After all, Saint Francis was a revolutionary and a visionary in his time; and he would still be today. He was the first person to understand that something was going wrong between nature and humanity. Today, Saint Francis would be a radical ecologist. And he has the courage to stand up for his ideals against any kind of opposition while also fighting for social justice, against discrimination, and especially against the horrible exploitation of our planet; as well as highlighting the fact that those suffering most from this ecological disaster are the poorest of the poor. Everybody who watches the film will be emotionally affected by it. This Pope has an incredible power, and the ability to reach out to everybody with his simple message. Read more: Pope calls for peace in Syria and across the Middle East On March 13, 2013, Jorge Mario Bergoglio greeted the crowd in St. Peter's Square in the heart of Rome with a simple "good evening!" moments after the Conclave had selected him as the new pope. He thus began his term with a down-to-earth tone that has marked his stewardship of the Catholic Church ever since. The new pontiff immediately tackled topics that the Catholic Church had been discussing before his election. He set up a nine-person cardinal conference to reform the church's organization and direction. The guiding principle: the Roman Catholic Church is not an end in itself. Instead, it should seek to spread the teachings of the Bible and bring the Vatican and its followers closer together. The deaths of migrants crossing from Africa to Europe are "a thorn in the heart," said Pope Francis on his first bridge building trip to Lampedusa. At the time of his visit in the summer of 2013, thousands of migrants were on the Italian island hoping to receive legal permits to continue their journey onto the European mainland. It aligned perfectly with his own message of the "poor church:" the picture of Pope Francis with the 30-year-old Renault 4 that he had received as a gift from a pastor in Verona. Francis reportedly wanted to drive the car, but was not allowed to due to security concerns. The symbol of modesty has endured. Francis' worldly style quickly made him an icon for progressive Catholics and other Christians. Even non-Christians applauded the pope and rubbed their eyes in amazement at the contrast between Francis and his conservative and academic predecessor, Pope Benedict. After 10 months in office, Francis became the first pope to make the cover of "Rolling Stone" magazine. Francis takes his task as bridge builder very seriously. He has acted as a mediator between warring parties in civil conflicts in central Africa and Colombia and also helped bring an end to frozen relations between the US and Cuba. With an eye toward the Mexican-US border, he has also urged US President Donald Trump to build bridges rather than walls. Francis has also tried to build bridges between confessions and religions. He prayed at the wailing wall in Jerusalem and met the Grand Mufti Mohammad Hussein. In Egypt, he visited the head of the Coptic Church, Tawadros II, and Grand Imam Ahmed al-Tayeb. In Myanmar, he spoke to Buddhist monks and in Havanna, he met with the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kyrill I (pictured). Francis spontaneously wed a couple on an airplane during a trip to Chile in January 2018. The two crew members were traveling with the pope on a flight from the capital Santiago to the northern city of Iquique. They had apparently told Francis of their plans to marry. Chile was also a touchstone where Francis tripped up. The Church has had a hard time there for years, particularly since cases of sexual abuse were made public. Bishop Juan Barros (pictured right) had allegedly been aware of the abuse, but remained silent. Francis dismissed the accusations against Barros as slander. Francis apologized for his words, but allowed Barros to remain in office. Francis' reform course has been too radical for some clerics. This poster in Rome accused Francis of showing no mercy within the church. He reportedly also has little time for dissent within the Vatican. Some church members think his course is too secular, his humility too bold, its display too media-orientated. The essence of religiosity – spirituality – some fear, could get lost in it all. Author: Jan D. Walter, Alexander Pearson Is the Pope a kind of punk who demands revolution and social change? He's quite rock'n'roll I think. And he's very courageous for behaving that way. Once in a while, this cheerfulness streams out of him. And he loves to laugh. At times he's even a bit cheeky. And he doesn't take himself so damn seriously — as many others do. He has a very high degree of moral integrity. That's something that, nowadays, can hardly be said about many people. One would rather think that moral integrity is on the decline. In our current world, people hold on to power who are not at all capable of leading people. Finally, he is someone who can be wholly trusted. Everybody who opens up to this Pope and his words in the film will then become a part of the transformation. Read more: 'Wings of Desire': Wim Wenders' restored masterpiece revives divided Berlin The Pope wants to be close to the people, and doesn't shy away from selfies How important is this film to you personally? I have been going Cannes [where the film premiered on May 13 — editors note] for decades now. I have been here with many of my films, but there was always something personal for which I am responsible, something that I brought into the world. In the case of this film, it's different. Right from the beginning, this film was intended as a mouthpiece for this man and his astonishing message. What I wanted to share is my opinion that this man is more capable than anybody else on the planet of changing the world.