Preliminary results from Lebanon's parliamentary elections on Monday suggested that the Iran-backed Hezbollah group and its political allies would secure a simple majority. Such an outcome would not only cement the Shiite group's dominance in Lebanon, but also underline Tehran's growing influence in the area and likely draw ire from its regional rivals, namely Israel and Saudi Arabia. Read more: Can independents offer a real alternative in Lebanon election? Hezbollah has grown in strength and regional influence since joining the war in Syria in 2012 in support of Syrian President Bashar Assad. Its growing influence in turn reflect Iran's territorial ascendancy in the Middle East, which stretches through and Iraq and Syria to Beirut. Hezbollah, which was founded in the 1980s to fight against Israel, has been branded a terrorist group by the US. The European Union, meanwhile, only lists Hezbollah's military wing as a terror group, differentiating between its militaristic and political activities. If confirmed, the preliminary results could put at risk billions of dollars in US military help to Lebanon, as well as international aid and loans the country needs to revive its stagnant economy. The election marks the first vote under the new proportional system, which replaced the structure where the winning party would carry all the seats in a particular district. The final tally was set to be announced later on Monday. 'Hezbollah equals Lebanon' A member of the Israeli government said that the preliminary results confirmed the Israeli government's perception that Lebanon and Hezbollah were equals. Education Minister Naftali Bennett said on Twitter that following these results, "the State of Israel will not differentiate between the sovereign State of Lebanon and Hezbollah." The right-leaning minister also said that Israel would hold Lebanon responsible for any possible Hezbollah action that would originate from its territory. PM Hariri down but not out Lebanon's prime minister, Saad Hariri,addressed the nation on Monday and acknowledged that his parliamentary group had lost a third of its seats. Read more: Lebanon's premier Saad Hariri rescinds shock resignation Hariri explained that poor party performance and the new electoral law contributed to the defeat. The prime minister still urged the international community to regard the electoral results in "a positive way." In a conciliatory tone, he congratulated all voters who participated in the elections and pledged to continue working with President Michel Aoun, who belongs to a rival bloc led by the militant Hezbollah. Lebanon's sectarian power sharing system dictates that the prime minister must be a Sunni. This means that Hariri will likely continue to occupy the post, as his Sunni parliamentary bloc would be the strongest in the country's 128-seat parliament. Experts also believe the complicated balance of power between various religious factions is set to remain mostly unchanged, with lawmakers representing Sunni Muslims, Shiite Muslims and Maronite Christians likely to be re-elected. 'Voting operations were very slow' Following a day of voting on Sunday, the Lebanese government  said only 49.2 percent of voters took part in the long-delayed election for the country's parliament. According to several political analysts, potential voters were discouraged by the stagnant economy and widespread corruption. Observers  reported a higher turnout in some areas of Lebanon that are known as the strongholds of the Hezbollah movement. Announcing the turnout figures on Sunday evening, the country's interior minister, Nouhad Machnouk, said the new electoral system had caused difficulties at the polls. The new voting law also introduced a female quota for the parliament "This is a new law and voters were not familiar with it, nor were the heads of polling stations," Machnouk said in a news conference. "Voting operations were very slow." Machnouk said a total of 7,300 complaints from the polling stations had been filed with the Interior Ministry, but did not provide details. Other sources reported fistfights breaking out at numerous polling stations around the country, as rival parties accused each other of ballot stuffing. In the district of Choueifat south of Beirut, a crowd rebelled against a station supervisor and smashed a ballot box. Security forces also intervened in the clash between rival Christian parties in the eastern town of Zahle. Sunday's Lebanese parliamentary elections were the first in nine years. Around 54 percent of voters took part in the last parliamentary vote in 2009. Instead of organizing another vote in 2013, lawmakers prolonged their terms on several occasions, citing security concerns over the war in neighboring Syria. Lebanon, with its population of 4.5 million, hosts more than 1.5 million refugees from the war-torn country. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2u0RW jcg/ng (dpa, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.