Moscow's Tretyakov Gallery has said it will review the sale of alcohol on its premises after an apparently drunken guest used a metal pole from a security barrier to smash the protective glass and damage a 1885 masterpiece by Russian painter Ilya Repin. Tretyakov curator Tatyana Gorodkova has described the act of vandalism as a "tragedy." "The incident was awful and frightening and speaks to the aggression which reigns in society," she said Monday. She also said the museum was considering hiring psychologists to help pick out potentially dangerous visitors. The attack left three large marks on the painting's surface Dispute over history? Repin's canvas, one of the country's most famous paintings and described by its curators as being in the same league as the Mona Lisa, depicts Russia's 16th century ruler, Ivan the Terrible, cradling his dead son in the moments after the tsar, according to some historical accounts, killed the prince in a fit of rage. According to Gorodkova, the content of the picture likely played a role in the Friday night attack. While smashing the glass, the 37-year-old visitor apparently shouted something about how Ivan the Terrible did not kill his son. Several historians believe the prince died of illness instead, and the viewpoint is popular among Russian nationalists. Gorodkova said the attack showed how Russians are increasingly "not differentiating artistic work from historical facts." Read more: Kazimir Malevich and his 'Black Square' 'Disturbed' by the picture Russian police arrested the man shortly after the Friday attack. Authorities said the man grew "disturbed" by the painting after drinking vodka in the on-site cafe. The Interior Ministry also published a video recording of the perpetrator giving a statement. "I came to see it, about eight in the evening I went to the cafe, I was already about to leave, and I drank 100 gram [some 3.5 ounces] of vodka," the man said in the video. "I don't [usually] drink vodka, and something just snapped." The suspect remains in detention. The world's most famous portrait, Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa," was stolen in 1911. A young Italian named Vincenzo Peruggia took the painting from the Louvre in Paris. Dressed as a member of the museum staff, he was able to hide the relatively small painting under his work coat. It reappeared in 1913 after an art dealer alerted the police. Rembrandt's portrait of "Jacques III de Gheyn" wasn't stolen from Britain's Dulwich Picture Gallery just once, but four times, namely in 1966, 1973, 1981 and 1986. That's why it came to be nicknamed the "Takeaway Rembrandt." Fortunately the painting has been recovered after each theft. The burglary of 13 paintings from the Isabella Steward Gardner Museum stirred international attention in 1990. Two men disguised as policemen broke into the building and removed the paintings, among them Edouard Manet's "Chez Tortoni" and Jan Vermeer's "Concert" (pictured). The empty picture frames are still hanging on the walls. In 1991, a man managed to lock himself into a bathroom in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam — unnoticed. With the help of a warden, he removed a total of 20 paintings, among them the Dutch painter's "Self portrait with Easel." However, police were able to recover the booty from the getaway car just one hour later, The thieves were caught a few months later. "Madonna of the Yarnwinder" by Leonardo da Vinci, valued at €70 million ($76 million) was stolen from a Scottish castle in 2003. Two thieves who entered an exhibition as tourists overpowered the security guard at Drumlanrig Castle and fled with the precious artwork. It remained lost for years until it was discovered during a raid in Glasgow in 2007. Two paintings by expressionist Edvard Munch, "The Scream" and "Madonna," were stolen in Oslo in 2004. Two armed robbers invaded the Munch Museum and, witnessed by numerous visitors, ripped the paintings from the wall. Police were able to retrieve the two famous paintings. However, "The Scream" was damaged so badly during the incident that it could never be fully restored. In 2008, armed thieves pilfered four paintings amounting to a total value of 180 million Swiss francs (€156 million, $182 million) from the collection Bührle in Zurich. "The Boy in the Red Vest" by Paul Cézanne, "Ludovic Lepic and His Daughters" by Edgar Degas, "Blossoming Chestnut Branches" by Vincent van Gogh, and "Poppy Field Near Vétheuil" by Claude Monet (pictured) all resurfaced later on. In March 2017, a huge gold coin weighing 100 kilos was stolen from Berlin's Bode Museum. Just its sheer material value alone amounts to four million dollars. It is believed that the thieves found their way into the building through a window. The "Big Maple Leaf" coin originated in Canada. It is 53 cm high and 3 cm thick. On the front side, it bears an image of Queen Elizabeth II. Author: Ines Eisele (ad) Second defacing in 105 years Addressing reporters alongside Gorodkova on Monday, Russia's Deputy Culture Minister Vladimir Aristarkhov said the offender should be made an example of to deter future vandalism. "The Ministry of Culture is urging the harshest, most severe punishment for the man who damaged the picture," Aristarkhov said. Under the current law, the offender could face up to three years in prison, but several officials have said the parliament might raise this limit for similar cases in the future. "Three years is nothing compared to the value of this painting," Aristarkhov added. Friday's attack is not the first time the picture has been defaced. In 1913, a man stabbed the painting with knife. Although Repin was still alive at the time and able to help with the restoration effort, the gallery's curator ended up committing suicide over the attack. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1HKoS dj/cmk (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa, Interfax)