South Korean President Moon Jae-in arrived at the White House at noon EDT (1600 GMT) for a meeting and a working lunch with US President Donald Trump to strategize about upcoming talks between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un next month. As talks began, US President Donald Trump said that he believed North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was "serious" about denuclearization. But Trump evaded questions about whether the landmark summit between the US and North Korea would go ahead as planned on June 12. "I do think he is serious. I think he is absolutely very serious," Trump said, amid fears that apparent North Korean backpedaling could scupper the Singapore summit. "There are certain conditions that we want," Trump said. He added if they aren't met, "we won't have the meeting." "It may not work out for June 12. If it does not happen, maybe it will happen later," Trump added. "Whether or not it happens you'll be knowing pretty soon," he told journalists at the White House. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said in his New Year’s address that his country was in the "final stages" of launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). US President-elect Donald Trump, whose inauguration was set for January 20, said on Twitter: "North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the US. It won't happen!" North Korea tested its first ICBM — the Hwasong-14 — on US Independence Day. Kim reportedly told his scientists that "the US would be displeased" by the launch. This, he said, was because "it was given a 'package of gifts' ... on its 'Independence Day.'" Trump wrote on Twitter in response: "North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?" Pyongyang tested its second Hwasong-14 weeks later. Experts estimated the new rocket could reach the US mainland. Trump lashed out at North Korean ally China, writing in a Tweet: "I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk." Trump appeared to threaten swift military action against Pyongyang when he told reporters: "North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen." North Korea responded by threatening to fire a medium-range ballistic missile into the waters around Guam, a US territory in the Pacific Ocean. It did not follow through. Pyongyang sparked international outcry when it test-launched a mid-range ballistic missile — the Hwasong-12 — over Japan. The UN Security Council unanimously condemned the test. Trump said in a White House statement: "Threatening and destabilizing actions only increase the North Korean regime’s isolation in the region and among all nations of the world. All options are on the table." North Korea announced it had successfully tested its sixth nuclear weapon. Pyongyang said it was a powerful type of nuclear weapon called a hydrogen bomb and that it could be placed on top of a ballistic missile. Trump wrote on Twitter: "The United States is considering, in addition to other options, stopping all trade with any country doing business with North Korea." In his first speech at the United Nations, Trump called North Korea a "rogue state" and said Washington "will have no choice than to totally destroy North Korea" if Pyongyang failed to stop its nuclear weapons program. Referring to Kim, he added: "Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime." Kim called Trump a "mentally-deranged US dotard" two days later. North Korea test-fired its third ICBM of 2017. Pyongyang claimed it was a new missile, the Hwasong-15, which was superior to the Hwasong-14 and could hit any target on the US mainland. The US urged allies, including Germany, to break diplomatic ties with North Korea. Berlin ignored the call. Trump also called Kim a "sick puppy." Kim said in his 2018 New Year's address that the North had completed its nuclear weapons program and that a "nuclear button" was on his desk at all times. Trump wrote two days later on Twitter: "Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" South Korean President Moon Jae-in welcomed Kim's sister, Kim Yo Jong, at the presidential house in the South Korean capital. She handed a letter to Moon inviting him to meet the North Korean leader in Pyongyang. Tensions appeared to be thawing. Seoul and Pyongyang had already agreed to send a unified hockey team to compete at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. South Korean National Security Adviser Chung Eui-yong led a delegation on March 5 to Pyongyang to discuss the potential for peace talks. The next day, Chung said both sides had agreed to hold a joint summit in April and set up a telephone hotline between the two capitals. He also said Pyongyang would agree to stop its nuclear weapons and missile tests if the US agreed to hold talks with the North. Chung flew on to Washington, D.C. to speak with Trump. After the meeting, Chung told reporters the US president had agreed to meet Kim by May. Trump later wrote on Twitter: "no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!" Foreign leaders welcomed the historic breakthrough. A week before the scheduled meeting at the border between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, Moon said North Korea wanted "an end to the hostile relations" and had expressed a commitment to "complete denuclearization" of the peninsula. The next day, the telephone hotline was connected for the first time since February 2016, so Moon and Kim could talk directly. Kim announced North Korea would stop nuclear and missile tests. Kim said: "We no longer need any nuclear test or test launches of intermediate and intercontinental range ballistic missiles, and because of this the northern nuclear test site has finished its mission." However, no mention was made of its stored nuclear materials and equipment. Kim and Moon Jae-in meet in the border town of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that has divided the two Koreas since the Korean War in 1953. The two leaders vowed to work towards a nuclear-free Korea and pledged an end to war. It was the first time a North Korean leader had set foot across the border since the 1950s and paves the diplomatic way for a Trump-Kim meeting in May or June. South Korea announces its propaganda loudspeakers are to be switched off for good. They had been silenced temporarily ahead of the inter-Korean summit, which prompted the North to halt its broadcasts, too. Pyongyang also said it would adjust its time zone to that of the South as a symbolic gesture. North Korea has been half an hour behind the South since 2015. Author: Alexander Pearson, Nicole Goebel Moon hinges hopes on Trump Moon meanwhile commented that Trump had been able to achieve dramatic positive change with North Korea, and that he remained confident that Trump would be able to make the upcoming summit successful. Moon said that the "fate and the future" of the Korean Peninsula hinged on the talks. "The person who is in charge is President Trump," Moon commented. Before seeing Trump, Moon met briefly with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and National Security Adviser John Bolton, urging them to speed up preparations to make the Trump-Kim summit succeed. "We South Korean people... expect much from you. Please take care of us," Moon said, according to a South Korean government statement. Read more: Trump promises 'strong' protections for denuclearized North Korea Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y5ZC Prospect of Trump-Kim meeting unsure North Korea's criticism last week about the latest US-South Korean military drills threw the summit between Trump and Kim into doubt. Some US officials have privately expressed concerns that Moon may have overstated Kim's willingness to negotiate the dismantling of his nuclear arsenal, and that the talks in Singapore on June 12 could fail before they started. Vice President Mike Pence says that all options are still on the table Moon's national security adviser, Chung Eui-yong, meanwhile told reporters that he believed there was "a 99.9 percent chance" that the Trump-Kim summit would still go ahead, according to South Korea's Yonhap news agency. Earlier on Tuesday, about two dozen journalists from Western and Chinese news organizations arrived in North Korea to witness the planned closure of the Punggye-ri nuclear test site. The move is seen as a good-will gesture and an indication that the summit between Trump and Kim is likely to go ahead as planned as well. However, the North did ban South Korean journalists from the trip to the nuclear site following the US-South Korean military drills last week. Denuclearization at the heart of talks Meanwhile US Vice President Mike Pence said that the United States remained hopeful about a planned summit with North Korea taking place but stressed that the US had not made any concessions in advance of the historic meeting to discuss North Korea's denuclearization. South Korean President Moon Jae-in (r.) may have overestimated North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's readiness to commit to denuclearization Pence said on Fox News Radio that plans "continue to go forward for a summit. We remain open to it, we remain hopeful. But let me very clear: nothing has changed about the policy of the United States of America. There have been no concessions offered and none given." Most analysts say it is unrealistic to believe that North Korea would agree to complete abandonment of its nuclear program. While Moon may be prepared to accept a less-stringent version of North Korean denuclearization, Washington continues to push for complete nuclear disarmament. ss/rt (AP, AFP, Reuters)