Hawaii authorities on Monday warned the public to steer cloud of the toxic white cloud seen rising out of the ocean. The plumes of acid and fine shards of glass are the latest of several mounting dangers caused by Kilauea volcano, which first erupted more than two weeks and has gone to destroy at least 44 homes in Hawaii's Puna district and forced some 2,000 people to evacuate their homes. The eruption on Hawaii's Big Island is entering its most violent phase yet, according to experts, in which rich, orange molten rock is pouring out of fissures in the ground, travelling faster and at higher temperatures than the magma that first spilled out. Scientists say that that's because the magma was left over from a 1955 eruption that had been stored in the ground for the past six decades. "We've seen Phase 1," said Carolyn Pearcheta, an operational geologist at the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. "We've seen the clearing out of the system. We call that the 'throat-clearing' phase." Read more: Hawaii volcano eruption: Lava hits ocean as first serious injury reported Kilauea, which is one of the most active volcanos in the world, has been erupting, oozing lava, and spewing toxic gases for weeks on Hawaii's Big Island. Experts aren't certain when Kilauea will calm down again. Around 2,000 people were evacuated from the area around the Kilauea volcano after it erupted and a lava fissure opened on May 3. In the weeks that followed, new eruptions and lava streams threatened the homes of residents located miles away. Large streams of lava rising up from huge cracks in the earth threatened neighborhoods located near the volcano. The molten rock spilled over on to streets and has destroyed over 40 homes and other buildings. Thousands of residents voluntarily left their homes due to high levels of toxic sulfur dioxide gas that spewed out of vents in the volcanic fissures. Officials also warned residents not to go near the lava that has poured into the ocean — the phenomenon causes the formation of clouds of hydrochloric acid and steam carrying fine glass particles. The eruptions and volcanic fissures created massive damage to roads and highways. Two lava streams crossed over a main coastal highway that is used as an escape route for residents. Other locals and tourists took a more relaxed approach to the volcanic eruptions. A group of people finished playing a round of golf while others take pictures of a massive ash cloud spewing from Kilauea. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with AP, Reuters) Deadly clouds The clouds of so-called "laze" — a combination of "lava" and "haze" — formed as steams of hot lava poured and fine volcanic glass specks pour into the ocean and mixed with the seawater. Geologists warned that the toxic cloud could extend as far as 15 miles (24 km) along the coast and offshore. While getting hit by the cloud may feel like being sprinkled with glitter, even a small wisp of the fumes can cause eye and respiratory irritation, and could even be fatal. "If you're feeling stinging on your skin, go inside," US Geological Survey scientist Wendy Stovall said. Read more: Hawaii: More volcanic explosions expected Big Island In 2000, a similar cloud caused by lava reaching the Hawaii coast killed two people. The cloud can also cause acid rain with corrosive properties equivalent to diluted battery acid, according to the Geological Survey. Earlier on Monday, a small eruption at the Kilauea summit produced an ash plume that reached about 7,000 feet (2,134 meters). Meanwhile, lava and molten rock continued to gush out of large cracks in the ground, creating rivers that bisected forests and farms as it rushed towards the coast. Read more: Our Beautiful Planet: Nature's tenacity after volcano eruptions Photos released by the US Geological Survey show masses of molten lava flowing into the ocean Lava rushing towards geothermal power plant On Monday, lava spewing out of the Kilauea volcano flowed towards a geothermal power plant, as workers scrambled to shut it down and prevent an uncontrollable release of more toxic gases into the air. Staff at the Puna Geothermal Venture (PGV) plant rushed to shut down three wells which tap into extremely hot water and steam some 6,000 to 8,000 feet underground to power turbines and produce electricity. Read more: Why risk living on a volcano like Kilauea? The plant, which provided around a quarter of all power to Big Island, was closed shortly after eruption began earlier this month, and some 60,000 gallons (227,124 liters) of flammable pentane used in the turbines had already been relocated. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xC07 Tourism under threat Scientists said they have no way of knowing how long the eruption is going to last. Ige said the state was monitoring volcano activity and working to keep people safe. "Like typical eruptions and lava flows, it's really allowing Madam Pele to run its course," he said, referring to the Hawaiian goddess of fire. Hawaii tourism officials have stressed that most of the Big Island remains unaffected by the Kilauea volcano and is still open for business. However, tourism authorities also admitted that summer bookings on Big Island had fallen by around 50 percent since the volcano first erupted. The closure of the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park alone could cause up to $222 million in lost revenue, with some 2,000 jobs indirectly impacted. According to Hawaii Visitors Bureau. tourism is by far the biggest employer on Big Island, accounting for over 30 percent of private sector jobs. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/gsw (AP, Reuters)