The Venezuelan government released American missionary Joshua Holt and his Venezuelan wife Thamara Caleno on Saturday, after two years behind bars on weapons charges. The release follows a concerted diplomatic effort from US Senators, former president Barack Obama's administration and current president Donald Trump, to lobby the Venezuelan government for their freedom. Read more: Sanctions or diplomacy? Venezuela election divides EU lawmakers Holt and his wife reunited at a Caracas airport, along with one of her daughters from a previous relationship. There they met US Senator Bob Corker, the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, who had flown to Caracas to discuss the impending release with President Nicolas Maduro. "We are on our way home," Corker tweeted. Upon arrival in Washington, Holt met with President Trump at the White House. "I'm just overwhelmed with gratitude," said Holt, at the Oval Office. "Those two years, they were a very, very, very difficult two years. Not really the great vacation that I was looking for ... I'm just so grateful for what you guys have done," he added. Holt's family at the oval office A wedding and a nightmare Josh Holt was arrested in June 2016 when he had traveled to Venezuela to celebrate his wedding to Thamara Caleno. He had met Thamara online and both shared the Mormon faith. The two came into contact as Holt was seeking to meet spanish-speaking Mormons to improve his spanish skills. Holt was hoping to spend several months with his new wife in Venezuela, while he processed visas for her and her two daughters to return with him to the US. But the couple was detained and held without trial at the headquarters of intelligence agency Sebin, in Caracas.  Authorities accused them of stockpiling weapons and espionage against the Venezuelan government. Just earlier this month, the number two official in Venezuela's government had pledged to keep Holt behind bars and labeled him "the head of U.S. espionage in Latin America." Holt's family accused the Venezuelan government of framing the couple. The US government accused Maduro's government of using Holt as a bargaining chip, as Washington had leveled sanctions against it in the meantime. Holt's mother, Laurie Holt, said her son has suffered numerous health problems, including kidney stones, respiratory problems, depression and weight loss, while in custody. In a statement, the Holt family thanked everyone who had "participated in this miracle" and asked the media to respect the family's privacy. "We ask that you allow us to meet with our son and his wife before giving any interviews and statements." Read more: Venezuela's economic demise hovers over elections A goodwill gesture Venezuela's communications minister, Jorge Rodriguez, said that Holt's release was a goodwill gesture from Maduro's government towards the US. "We're praying that this type of gesture ... will allow us to strengthen what we've always sought: dialogue, harmony, respect for our independence and respect for our sovereignty," he said. The release comes just under a week after Maduro was re-elected to a second term in a widely criticized vote. On Thursday, the Venezuelan president had announced that he intended to release an unspecified number of political prisoners. Sanctions relief unlikely Vice President Mike Pence dispelled any rumors that the Venezuelan government might get sanctions relief in return for Holt's freedom. In a tweet, Pence said that sanctions would continue "until democracy returns to Venezuela." The statement was echoed by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who also reinforced the notion that US policy will remain unchanged. "The United States stands steadfast in support of the Venezuelan people and their efforts to return to democracy," Pompeo said in a statement. Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term on May 20 with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to the election body. However, the MUD opposition alliance, which boycotted the vote, put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States called the elections neither free nor fair. Author: Kathleen Schuster jcg/bw (Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.