Italy's political situation right now seems like something straight out of a bad TV show. Three potential prime ministers (Paolo Gentiloni, Giuseppe Conte, Carlo Cottarelli), all of them frozen until maybe, somehow, a government appears out of thin air; a serious argument with the president to the detriment of the Italian constitution; populists up in arms, yelling "They won't let us govern." In addition to that, the traditional parties are still in shock, there's the risk of new elections with a completely open outcome and the stock markets are scared, too. Also, the Italians have been spending more than they have for a long time, so the state debt is astronomically high. And there are no long-term, sustainable reforms in sight. Read More: Italy and the eurozone: the cloud returns A right-wing extremist party (Matteo Salvini's The League) and classic populists (Luigi Di Maio's Five Star Movement) are the ones with power now. They have been saying ― albeit in a confusing and conflicting way ― that an "Italy of change" governed by them will leave the eurozone. That of course makes people like far-right figures Steve Bannon, Viktor Orban, Marine Le Pen or even Vladimir Putin very happy. Europe's problem child Yes, the whole world is talking about Italy these days. We are once again the problem child of Europe. The best-known political commentators are calling it a "Greek tragedy," citing the danger of an Italian default ― the fear that the country might not be able to pay back its debt. They warn that Italy, the third-largest economy in the European Union, could go bankrupt. Roberto Brunelli writes for Italian newspaper La Repubblica But despite all of that (or maybe even because of it), EU Commissioner Günther Oettinger saying essentially that the markets will teach the Italians how to vote doesn't help Italy or the EU at all. On the contrary, such phrases play right into the hands of populist politicians. Major newspapers wrote in response to Oettinger's remarks about "Oktoberfest cliches," new talking points from the right and left use words and phases like "blackmail" and the "arrogance" of the "strong powers" in Brussels, Strasbourg and Berlin. Within minutes, social networks were full of nonsense posts about the "Fourth Reich" and German tanks. In many peoples' minds, Germany has turned into an imperialist superpower again! Even Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, immediately realized that Oettinger's statement (which was denied in its first, condensed form) was a bad communications gaffe. Someone who wants to avoid a fire should not pour oil onto the flames ― that should be obvious. The problem is, after all, populism, and not just in Italy. It stokes fears and rocks the democratic structures of established institutions. That has to do with the great loss of trust, of course, that "traditional politics" has had to face across all of Europe these past few years. Everything is supposedly part of the "establishment," everything is perceived as alienating globalization and as a loss of identity for those who feel left out of the political discourse. Arrogant rhetoric and a lack of solidarity As for the case of Italy: Those who are surprised that people here are so hurt by Oettinger's comments should think of our high unemployment numbers, the lack of investments, of the constant rhetoric that's perceived as arrogant about "homework" in saving and social cut-backs, of the missing European solidarity when it comes to migrants and refugees. And yes, also of the grinning faces of Bannon, Le Pen and the like. Read more: Italy's rising populism leaves refugee aid workers worried over immigration reform Populism is behind many of the mistakes made in Europe in recent years, and those who don't understand that simply don't realize the extent of the risks that are looming now. Yes, the situation is complicated: That's why we should break the spiral of mutual cliches (lazy Southerners versus arrogant, but frugal northern Europeans) ― in Rome, in Berlin and in Brussels. Roberto Brunelli is a foreign policy editor at Rome-based daily La Repubblica. He has also written several books, including a 2013 biography of the German chancellor titled Angela Merkel ― The Sphinx. Carlo Cottarelli is Italy's caretaker prime minster, tasked with leading the country towards fresh elections, after an inconclusive March vote led to a formation of a coalition led by two populist parties. The alliance failed to have its controversial cabinet picks approved by the president. The former IMF economist has been nicknamed Mr Scissors, due to his reputation for public spending cuts. Giuseppe Conte, a little-known law professor with no political experience, had been picked by the Northern League and 5 Star Movement (M5S) as their compromise candidate for prime minister. But he was forced to give up his leadership bid after the parties' cabinet selection was blocked. President Sergio Mattarella faces calls for his impeachment after he stepped in to prevent the populist alliance taking office. He singled out its choice for finance minister, Paolo Savona, warning that an openly euroskeptic minister in that position went against the parties' joint promise to simply "change Europe for the better from an Italian point of view." Respected economist Paola Savona, who was tipped to lead the finance ministry, has called the euro a "German cage," and said that Italy needs a plan to leave the single currency "if necessary." The 81-year-old's controversial stance won him the backing of most Italian lawmakers but that wasn't enough to stop his appointment being vetoed. M5S leader Luigi di Maio secured his party 32 percent of the vote in the March elections. He was set to become labor minister in Conte's administration. But his cabinet position, which would have empowered M5S to pursue an anti-austerity program and face off against the EU, is, for now, in tatters. Di Maio has called for the president to be impeached and fresh elections in July. Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in March elections. A former member of the European Parliament, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini was set to take over the Interior Ministry, and has now called Cottarelli's appointment "the final blow from those above, who want an enslaved, scared and poor Italy." Silvio Berlusconi (R) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electorial alliance including League in the March elections that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinising opposition." Author: Chase Winter