Boeing announced Tuesday that it reached an agreement to acquire Florida-based aerospace parts distributor KLX for $4.25 billion (€3.5 billion) in an effort to boosts its aviation services business. Executives at Boeing described the move as another significant step in growing its specialized global services arm, which was launched last year and aims to increase its initial annual revenue of $15 billion to $50 billion within five years. Read more: Trump lands new Air Force One deal with Boeing "This acquisition is the next step in our services growth strategy, with a clear opportunity to profitably grow our business and better serve our customers in a $2.6 trillion, 10-year services market," said Stan Deal, head of Boeing Global Services. Nuts and bolts KLX provides aerospace parts and services to commercial, business and defense jet customers worldwide. In December, the company first announced it was considering options, including selling itself. In 2017, the company reported $1.7 billion in revenues. Read more: EU executive probes state loan for Alitalia Under the all-cash deal, Boeing will pay $63 per share and assume $1 billion in debt. As part of the deal KLX will divest its energy services business, which provides oilfield tools and services to the oil business. Planes powered with renewable energy don't produce CO2 or other climate-damaging emissions such as nitrogen oxide and particles. They are smaller, lighter and more efficient than planes powered by kerosene. The Alpha Electro from the Slovenian start-up Pipistrel is already proving this since 2015, when it had its maiden flight. Most companies and scientists see the future of electric planes in regional transport. The Israeli start-up Eviation plans to revolutionize commuting with their nine-seater. The prototype Alice can fly for up to 650 miles (1,000 kilometers), and will take to the sky in 2019 for the first time, according to the company. The flying taxi of the German company Lilium had its first successful flight in April 2017. The five-seater can take off and land vertically, has a reach of 190 miles and travels from London to Paris in just an hour. The goal of the company is for people to one day be able to order their flying cab via app for the price of a regular taxi ride. Some plane manufacturers don't dare go all-electric just yet. In November 2017, Airbus, Rolls-Royce and Siemens announced they will jointly develop a commercial hybrid-electric prototype. The e-Fan X will be powered by three gas turbines and one electric motor. The companies aim to replace a second gas turbine with another electric motor at a later stage. A prototype is anticipated to fly in 2020. As part of British budget airliner EasyJet's plans to become more climate-friendly, it has entered into a cooperation with the United States startup Wright Electric. The goal is to develop a completely electric-powered plane for up to 150 passengers. It's not known yet when we can expect to see a first prototype. Experts believe that we could be flying in electric planes within 20 years. Various prototypes companies are working on have a range of a 155 to 650 miles. But technology is developing at an ever-faster pace. Who knows? One day, we might be able to travel around the world in emission-free planes completely powered by renewable energy. There's hope for all environmentally conscious travel addicts! Author: Katharina Wecker tr/kd (AFP, AP, Reuters)