The Palestinian foreign minister on Tuesday requested the International Criminal Court (ICC) in Holland to immediately investigate human rights crimes allegedly committed by Israel against the Palestinian people. Foreign Minister Riad Malki told reporters in The Hague that he submitted the "referral" to the court during a meeting with the ICC's chief prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda. The move is expected to further escalate tensions between the Palestinians and Israel, which have seen their relations worsen in recent days in the aftermath of the US Embassy move to Jerusalem and the death of over 100 Palestinians in Israeli fire during mass protests along the Gaza border. Read more: Little optimism in Middle East conflict, Israeli historian says Malki said the referral sought a probe into Israeli policies in the West Bank, east Jerusalem and Gaza Strip, including the country's settlement policies and last week's deaths in Gaza. "There is a culture of impunity in Israel for crimes against Palestinians," Malki said. "This referral is Palestine's test to the international mechanism of accountability and respect for international law." The referral gives the legal basis to the court's prosecutors to move beyond a preliminary inquiry they launched in January 2015 when the Palestinians first joined the ICC. The ICC has the authority to hear cases of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity committed on the territory of its 123 members. This means Israel, a non-member, could still be targeted for crimes committed on Palestinian territory. The convoy of Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah of the West Bank-based Fatah group was targeted as he made a rare visit to Gaza on March 13. The Palestinian Authority said it held Hamas responsible, having failed to provide adequate security. Hamas claimed the attack was aimed at hurting efforts to achieve unity and reconciliation. Palestinians in the Gaza Strip announce a major, peaceful demonstration to be held on the border to claim the right to return to lands now held by Israel. Israel refuses the right to return. Some 30,000 Palestinians take part in the first of the demonstrations on March 30, marking Land Day, named for the 1976 Arab protests against Israeli plans to expropriate land. Some demonstrators ran at the border fence and 16 were killed by Israeli troops with others injured, and some dying later. Speaking on April 9 in the Israeli town of Sderot, near Gaza, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said: "We have one clear and simple rule and we seek to express it constantly: If someone tries to attack you — rise up and attack him. We will not allow, here on the Gaza border, them to hurt us. We will hurt them." The third day of demonstrations on April 13 began with organizers encouraging people to walk on an Israeli flag placed at the protest near the border. Palestinians ran to help a young man injured during the border protest on April 13. Stones had been thrown at border guards and the Israeli troops fired on the demonstrators. Some 45 Palestinians have died and hundreds have been injured between March 30 and April 27. Protest continued on April 20th, with some Palestinian protesters using kites to transport Molotov cocktails and firebombs over the fence. Israeli snipers killed at least four more Palestinians on April 20th, including a 15-year-old boy. The UN Middle East envoy dubbed the killing "outrageous." US President Donald Trump's daugher Ivanka is part of the delegation that opened the new US Embassy in Jerusalem. The transfer of the embassy triggered a fresh wave of protests in which 62 people were killed. The deaths have considerably heightened tensions in the area. As the US celebrated its embassy move from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem, Palestinian protests escalated. The events coincided with the 70th anniversary of the foundation of modern-day Israel, and Nakba Day, when Palestinians recall those who fled or were expelled as Israel was established. Palestinians carried away a protester injured on May 15th after demonstrations marking the 70th anniversary of Nakba. Salah al-Bardaweel, a Hamas official said on Palestinian television that all but 12 of the dead were members of Hamas. Mahmoud Abbas the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization is planning to pursue a war crimes complaint against Israel at the International Criminal Court. Read more: Israel's future: ongoing 'question marks' 'Cynical step' Israel hit back strongly against the Palestinian request to the ICC and questioned its legal validity. "The purported Palestinian referral is legally invalid, and the ICC lacks jurisdiction over the Israeli-Palestinian issue, since Israel is not a member of the Court and because the Palestinian Authority is not a state," the Israeli Foreign Ministry said in a statement, calling the move a "cynical step." Israel accused the Palestinians of violent incitement against Israel and exploiting women and children as human shields. "Israel expects the ICC and its prosecutor not to yield to Palestinian pressure, and stand firm against continued Palestinian efforts to politicize the court and to derail it from its mandate," the Israeli statement said. ap/jm (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.