Initial forecasts from Tunisia's municipal elections — the first since the 2011 Arab Spring uprising and held Sunday after being delayed four times due to logistical, administrative and political issues — put the Islamist Ennahdha movement ahead with 27.5 percent of the vote. The secular Nidaa Tounes party of President Beji Caid Essebsi reportedly came in second at 22.5 percent, according to a poll by marketing research company Sigma Conseil. Read more: Tunisia's 'first free' municipal elections since uprising Ghannouchi said his party was willing to cooperate with all others, regardless of size "These polls send a strong message that the Tunisian democracy is alive," said Ennahdha's leader Rached Ghannouchi, whose party governs jointly with Nidaa Tounes at the national level. Turnout, however, was at only 33.7 percent of the 5.3 million eligible voters, according to Tunisia's ISIE electoral commission. The low figure reflected voter exasperation over new austerity measures, alleged corruption, 15 percent unemployment and 8 percent inflation. Elections 'no longer source of change' Rafik Halouani, head of the election monitoring agency Mourakiboun, said young Tunisians seemed to "no longer believe in elections as a source of change, which is very serious for democracy." Sunday's voting in 350 municipalities, involving 57,000 candidates, has been touted as another milestone on Tunisia's road to democracy, introducing a new generation to public office ahead of parliamentary and presidential votes in 2019. In many localities, independents campaigned on separate lists against established parties. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2qp2D Young voters absent "The government has promised a lot and achieved little," said former Prime Minister Mehdi Jamaa. The low turnout was a "strong message … for politicians," warned Prime Minister Youssef Chahed. Young voters in Tunis were notably absent at polling stations. Pre-Sunday polling among security forces resulted in a participation rate of only 12 percent. Unemployed graduate Kamilia Mlouki, 23, told the Agence France-Presse news agency that she had her "right" to vote by casting a blank ballot. "I have no more faith in any political party or electoral list." "These municipal elections won't change anything for us," 34-year-old housewife Hilma told AFP. "I want a job," said a young man who gave his name as Ramzi, speaking with Reuters. "No one cared for us in the past years and we suffer from unemployment." Irregularities few, say observers At one polling station in the southern Saharan town of Borj el-Khadra not a single voter appeared, according to electoral sources quoted by the German news agency dpa. By mid-afternoon local time, voter turnout overall was put at only 21 percent. Monitors spoke of violations in two towns in the Gafsa region, including attempts at vote buying and ballot urns being broken open. At Mdhila in Tunisia's south, electoral officials decided to postpone polling in eight centers because of a mistake in elections papers, Reuters reported. A 124-member EU observer mission said no major irregularities had been noted. From a time when ͞the walls had ears to post-revolution struggles seven years later, Tunisians are proud to have won their freedom of speech. "Now, at least we can speak freely," proclaim Tunisians on the streets. Cafes, such as Le Parlement in Tunis, have become a forum for discussions and debates spurred on by the revolution. Bardo,Tunisia's National Museum, was the scene of one of the two terror attacks in 2015, which left 24 people dead and the country's crucial tourism economy in tatters. Twenty tourists were killed In Bardo, and another 38 in the resort town Sousse. Tunisia also has the highest number of "Islamic State" recruits, and has fought against an Islamist insurgency in the country's border regions. The murders of secularist politicians Mohamed Brahmi and Chokri Belaid shocked the country in 2013; Tunis routinely sees demonstrators calling for justice. Competing football club graffiti in Tunis suburbs. Some young Tunisians have pointed at the political apathy and disengagement, claiming that society focuses more on football rivalries than post-revolution politics. A landmark law, which came into effect in February, made violence against women a criminal offence. Wafa Fraouis has been involved in women's issues since she was 15-years old. She was a member of the committees drafting the post-revolution constitution, enshrining gender equality in Tunisia's future. She is now director of Beity, the only shelter for vulnerable women in Tunis. For many Tunisians, the only option to escape creeping poverty is the dangerous journey to Europe. Over 6,000 Tunisians reached Italy's shores in 2017 alone; over a third came in the space of two months, the sharpest increase since the 2011 revolution. Inside a cafe, a group of men sit around plastic tables covered with coffee cups, as heaps of discarded cigarette butts pile underneath. "This is what unemployment looks like," says one of the regulars inside. At least three visitors in the small cafe have been deported from Italy. Marwan, a regular at this cafe, says many Tunisians leave to escape prison sentences, provide for their families back home, or cut links with the past completely. "We departed together with five boats; three made it to Lampedusa." He spent four years in northern Italy, dealing drugs and saving enough for a house and marriage back home. Hundreds of Tunisians who have tried to take the dangerous sea route across the Mediterranean have perished. Unmarked graves have popped up along Tunisia's coastline. Author: Benas Gerdziunas (Tunis) Funds, decision-making at local level Western donors are reportedly ready to provide funds to local councils, but this will hinge on central government allocations under a new law intended to gradually devolve decision-making to the local level. Billions of dollars in loans have already been contributed via the International Monetary Fund and various countries to help plug budget deficits and one of the world's highest public sector bills. Some 60,000 security personnel had been deployed to protect Sunday's vote, with memories still fresh of extremist attacks on tourist sites and the presidential guard in 2015. ipj/cmk (Reuters, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 