US President Donald Trump is set to impose steel and aluminum tariffs on the European Union, the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported on Wednesday.  The White House could make the tariffs announcement on Thursday. In March, president Trump had imposed a 25 percent tariff on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, a policy that was thought to be largely aimed at China. Soon afterwards, the White House chose to exempt several countries temporarily and negotiate with each one to obtain concessions in return for a more permanent exemption. Read more:Donald Trump's EU trade dilemma: United against China or alone against the world? The EU was under this exemption and had been negotiating with the Trump administration in since, but the exemption is set to expire on Friday. According to WSJ, citing people familiar with the talks, a last-minute deal to avert the expiration appeared unlikely. Top European officials gathered in Paris with US trade officials on Wednesday for a last-ditch effort to avoid the tariffs, but a solution appeared far from reach. Read more: Crunch time for EU-US talks on steel and aluminum tariffs The European Commission has consistently argued that the EU is not the cause of global overcapacity in steel and aluminum and should be permanently exempted from tariffs. Last minute talks "Realistically, I do not think we can hope" to avoid either tariffs or quotas on steel and aluminum, said the European Union's trade commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom. Although there is still time and there is a possibility that the US would extend the exemption, Malmstrom expects the US to "nonetheless to want to impose some sort of cap on EU exports." According to the WSJ, US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross echoed Malmstrom's pessimism, though he said the administration was still open to keep negotiating a deal that could deliver better market opportunities in the EU for US exports, even after tariffs are imposed. "It's not that you can't talk just because there are tariffs," Mr. Ross said in Paris at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). "God knows there are plenty of tariffs the EU has in place on us,” he said. Flanked by steel workers, US President Donald Trump signed a presidential proclamation on global metal tariffs in March, claiming that subsidized imports were damaging domestic producers. The measures were targeted primarily at overproduction by China but, in a tweet, Trump also described the European Union as "wonderful countries who treat the US very badly on trade." Heavy tariffs had been recommended on China, Russia and other countries by the US Commerce Department. It said that normal methods used to prevent dumping of products at low prices onto US markets had failed. Although China was singled out as particularly responsible for causing the glut in steel and aluminum, the recommendation was that other countries should also take a hit. China said it would respond to the US plans to impose tariff by adding a 25 percent tariff on products from the US — including pork, wine, apples and ginseng. Washington hit back with a list of technological targets to be slapped with new duties, with Beijing then imposing duties on soybeans — a product for which China is US producers' main market. Among the countries hit by the tariffs was South Korea, which agreed to cut steel exports to the US by 30 percent and accept extended tariffs on South Korea pickup trucks by the US. Seoul also said it would open up its car market more widely to the US, its second-largest trading partner. The Trump administration had instigated talks last year to renegotiate its KORUS trade deal with the US. The leaders of France, Britain and Germany said they would be ready to retaliate if the EU were not permanently exempted from the tariffs. According to the office of French President Emmanuel Macron, he had discussed the tariffs with Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister Theresa May. The three hoped the US wouldn't take measures "contrary to transatlantic interests," a spokesperson said. Before the US introduced its temporary waiver on the tariffs for the EU, Brussels had threatened Washington with raising duties on some particularly iconic American goods. They included US bourbon, peanut butter, Harley Davidson motorcycles and blue jeans. It's expected that Canada and Mexico could receive longer tariff exemptions. That's because negotiations over the levies have become intertwined with talks about the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Author: Richard Connor European backlash The EU has vowed to retaliate, by suggesting it would impose tariffs on American products in return. Among the goods that the EU could target are Harley-Davidson motorbikes, blue jeans, bourbon whiskey, orange juice and peanut butter. Read more: Opinion: EU should not play Trump's customs games French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a speech on Wednesday at the OECD on the matter, where he warned about the consequences of a trade war. "Unilateral responses and threats over trade war will solve nothing of the serious imbalances in the world trade. Nothing," Macron said. "These solutions might bring symbolic satisfaction in the short term... One can think about making voters happy by saying: I have a victory, I'll change the rules, you'll see." Macron said, adding that in the long term, the result can be an increase in prices and unemployment. The imposition of tariffs comes at a time of high tension between Europe and the US. In particular, both sides of the Atlantic have clashed in the recent weeks over the US decision to abandon the Iran nuclear deal. jcg/rc (AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.