Berlin is "determined to do everything necessary" to preserve the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran despite the US pullout, Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said while meeting US lawmakers at the start of his visit to Washington. "We don't want any proliferation of nuclear weapons in our extended neighborhood," Maas stressed. Having a deal, according to Maas, is better than not having one, and fearing that Iran would restart its uranium enrichment program. However, his words appear to keep falling on deaf ears. As he left his meeting with US President Donald Trump's National Security Advisor John Bolton, the US' position remained unchanged. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, whom Maas is due to meet later during his trip to Washington, said earlier that he would defend his country's position during an upcoming meeting in June with representatives from Germany, France and the UK - all signatories to the original Iran nuclear deal. Both of the US politicians have vocally opposed the deal and show no signs of budging on the US walkout. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xL7V 'The strongest sanctions in history' On Tuesday, Pompeo also pledged the US would "apply unprecedented financial pressure" on Iran if it did not comply with US demands on disarmament. "These will be the strongest sanctions in history by the time we are done," Pompeo said. The former CIA-chief also said that America's European allies would eventually go along with the US plan due to "overlapping values and interests." Read more: Iran calls EU efforts to save nuclear deal inadequate Earlier this month, Maas sharply criticized the US stance on Iran, calling it a "disappointment." He added that Berlin was willing to "fight for our interests where necessary." In addition to the Iran deal pullout, Germany and other US allies are irritated by Washington's withdrawal from the Paris climate accord and by the threat of introducing tariffs on EU aluminum and steel. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y586 Deep bond with the US While meeting members of the US Congress on Tuesday, however, Maas seemed to moderate his stance. "Our bond with the United States is close and deep, even if our opinions differ in some areas," he said in Washington. At the same, Maas restated that the ties between the two allies were "undergoing a change." The growing friction with the US saw Maas and German Chancellor Angela Merkel visit Moscow to ask Russia for help in salvaging the Iran deal. Merkel is also expected to discuss the issue with China's Xi Jinping when she is in Beijing on Thursday. President Donald Trump announced on May 8 that he was pulling the United States out of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, arguing that the international accord was not in America's "national interest." The decision threw a cloud of uncertainty over the future of the nuclear accord and raised tensions with US allies in Europe. Britain, France and Germany lobbied the Trump administration and Congress to remain in the nuclear accord, arguing that the deal was working and a US violation without a follow up plan would be destabilizing. In European capitals, the Trump administration's withdrawal was viewed as a slap in the face of allies. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), better known as the Iran nuclear deal, was signed in 2015 by United States, China, Russia, France, Germany and Britain (P5+1) and Iran following years of negotiations. Under the international agreement, Iran agreed to dismantle its nuclear program and be subject to monitoring in exchange for the lifting on international nuclear related sanctions. The JCPOA includes a robust monitoring, verification and inspection regime carried out by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The UN watch dog has verified Iran's compliance with the deal in 12 quarterly reports. The JCPOA allows Iran to pursue a peaceful nuclear program for commercial, medical and industrial purposes in line with international non-proliferation standards. The Iran nuclear deal was President Barack Obama's signature foreign policy achievement. Seeking to undo nearly every Obama administration legacy, Trump came into office calling it the "worst deal ever." The Trump administration argues the nuclear deal doesn't address other unrelated issues such as Iran's ballistic missiles, regional influence, support for "terrorist" groups and human rights. The nuclear deal and lifting of punishing nuclear related international sanctions created optimism in Iran after years of economic isolation. However, even before Trump pulled the US out of the deal, Tehran blamed the US for holding back international investment and not fulfilling its end of the bargain due to the uncertainty created by Trump's threats. After eight years with Barack Obama, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu found the US president he wanted in Donald Trump. The Israeli leader repeatedly slammed the deal despite his own military and intelligence chiefs' assessment the that JCPOA, while not perfect, was working and should be maintained. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are the other main opponents of the nuclear deal. The EU-3 (Britain, France, Germany) are scrambling to ensure that Iran receives the economic benefits it was promised in order to avoid Tehran pulling out of the deal. As EU businesses face retaliation from the US for doing business with Iran, many are opting to avoid Iran. This would likely be a present to Chinese and Russian businesses. dj,ss/jm (dpa, AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.