Brazilian President Michel Temer announced on Sunday that his government would set a lower price for diesel, in a renewed effort to end a national truckers' strike that has led to crippling fuel and food shortages. Despite having reached an agreement with transport unions on May 24, nearly 600 roads remained partially or fully blocked throughout the country, as many truckers were not satisfied with the deal. Over the past week, thousands of schools have canceled classes, many flights were grounded, gas stations were virtually out of fuel and stores were quickly running out of perishable foods, as the strike had brought much of nationwide commerce to a halt. The continued state of paralysis led Temer to agree to four more trucker demands, in addition to fixing the price of diesel temporarily. "We have done our part to ease the problems and suffering," Temer said during a televised appearance, adding that he was aware of reports that millions of animals could die of hunger if the crisis did not ease. Read more: Opinion: What path will Brazil take? Temporary government subsidy In January, the average price of diesel in Brazil was 3.36 reais ($0.92 or €0.79) per liter, and it rose to 3.6 prior to the strike. By May 26, the price had risen to 3.8. Temer said the new measure would cut 0.46 reais per liter of diesel and that this new price would be maintained for a period of 60 days. The Brazilian president said that he had also conceded to four other demands made by the truckers' union. Since the state-run Petrobras oil company has autonomy to set its own pricing, Temer said the government would pay the difference between the price set by Petrobras and the new reduction for the next 60 days. In essence, the cut will be a temporary government fuel subsidy. Read more: Brazil headed for worst recession in a century (2016) The truckers' shutdown comes at a time when Brazil is struggling to recover from a deep recession, as the Brazilian real has devalued against the US dollar and as oil prices worldwide have increased, recently owing to uncertainty over Iran. jcg/msh (AFP,  AP, Reuters)