Two days after he was asked to try to form a caretaker administration, Italy's prime minister-designate, Carlos Cottarelli, said on Wednesday that "new possibilities for the birth of a political government have emerged." His statement followed a short meeting with President Sergio Mattarella to discuss his progress, as the country tries to form an interim government following an inconclusive election in March. Cottarelli added: "This circumstance, also considering market tensions, has compelled me to wait for further developments." His statement gave no further details. The former IMF economist was tasked with putting together an interim government after the failure of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement (M5S) and anti-immigrant League party to form a coalition. Read more:  EU chides Budget Commissioner Günther Oettinger over Italy remarks Carlo Cottarelli is Italy's caretaker prime minster, tasked with leading the country towards fresh elections, after an inconclusive March vote led to a formation of a coalition led by two populist parties. The alliance failed to have its controversial cabinet picks approved by the president. The former IMF economist has been nicknamed Mr Scissors, due to his reputation for public spending cuts. Giuseppe Conte, a little-known law professor with no political experience, had been picked by the Northern League and 5 Star Movement (M5S) as their compromise candidate for prime minister. But he was forced to give up his leadership bid after the parties' cabinet selection was blocked. President Sergio Mattarella faces calls for his impeachment after he stepped in to prevent the populist alliance taking office. He singled out its choice for finance minister, Paolo Savona, warning that an openly euroskeptic minister in that position went against the parties' joint promise to simply "change Europe for the better from an Italian point of view." Respected economist Paola Savona, who was tipped to lead the finance ministry, has called the euro a "German cage," and said that Italy needs a plan to leave the single currency "if necessary." The 81-year-old's controversial stance won him the backing of most Italian lawmakers but that wasn't enough to stop his appointment being vetoed. M5S leader Luigi di Maio secured his party 32 percent of the vote in the March elections. He was set to become labor minister in Conte's administration. But his cabinet position, which would have empowered M5S to pursue an anti-austerity program and face off against the EU, is, for now, in tatters. Di Maio has called for the president to be impeached and fresh elections in July. Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in March elections. A former member of the European Parliament, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini was set to take over the Interior Ministry, and has now called Cottarelli's appointment "the final blow from those above, who want an enslaved, scared and poor Italy." Silvio Berlusconi (R) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electorial alliance including League in the March elections that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinising opposition." Author: Chase Winter Finance appointee blocked The president rejected their nominee for finance minister, 81-year-old Paolo Savona, a euroskeptic economist who has described the euro as "Germany's cage." That latest twist has forced the two populist parties to the sidelines, as Cottarelli attempts to steer the country towards fresh elections next year. The parties have vowed to use their parliamentary majority to sabotage any government with Cottarelli at the helm, raising the specter of another national vote as early as July. M5S leader Luigi di Maio on Wednesday backed away from a call for the president's impeachment, saying instead that voters — and not Germany or the rating agencies — should decide Italy's future. League leader Matteo Salvini called Cottarelli's appointment "the final blow from those above, who want an enslaved, scared and poor Italy." Read more:  Opinion: Italy's election results highlight a European trend No parliamentary support Any new government will need parliamentary approval — Cottarelli may not even receive support from Italy's traditional mainstream parties. That would be a symbolic defeat for Mattarella, who had hoped to calm financial markets with the appointment of a neutral government. The political uncertainty rattled European stock markets on Tuesday, and led to a spike in the yield on 10-year Italian government bonds, although the price dropped back on Wednesday. The euro, as well as US and European stock markets, fell on Tuesday amid fears that political uncertainty in Italy could lead to broader instability in the eurozone. The Reuters news agency on Wednesday cited three sources as saying that the European Central Bank sees no reason to intervene in the crisis as there are no signs of stress among banks. One source said the ECB does not have the tools or mandate to solve what is a domestic issue. Italy, the eurozone's third-largest economy, has struggled since the 2007-2009 financial crisis under an enormous debt pile. Investors are worried that euroskeptic parties could form a future government that would abandon the euro, or commit to public spending that would see Italy become the next Greece. Read more:  Italy's rising populism leaves refugee aid workers worried over immigration reform The instability could well boost support for both populist parties in any fresh elections. An IPSOS poll in the Corriere della Sera newspaper on Wednesday showed the League on 25 percent support, compared to around 17 percent in March. Support for M5S was steady at about 32.6 percent. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yYtu mm/msh (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.