Largely unknown law professor Giuseppe Conte was chosen Monday by a far-right coalition of the 5-Star Movement (M5S) and League to lead Italy's government. The 54-year-old, who is closely associated with M5S, has never been elected to parliament and is a relative newcomer to Italy's political scene. Read more:  The populist odd couple preparing for government Giuseppe Conte is a little-known law professor at Florence University, viewed as a League and 5 Star Movement (M5S) technocratic compromise candidate for prime minister. Conte is not a lawmaker and has no political experience. He will have to manage a potentially unwieldy alliance between League and M5S, two parties that have not ruled at the national level. Conte is an expert on civil and commercial law. 5-Star Movement leader Luigi Di Maio (L) tapped him before the election for minister of the newly created public administration and simplification portfolio. Conte has worked as a lawyer and academic, with "refinement of legal studies" at Yale, New York University and Sorbonne, among other universities, according to his CV. The M5S leader secured his party 32 percent of the vote in March elections. He is tapped to become labor and welfare minister, or economic minister. Either position would empower M5S to pursue an anti-austerity program that could bring it up against the EU. Matteo Salvini is the leader of the anti-immigrant, euroskeptic League, which won 17 percent of the vote in March elections. A former member of the European Parliament, he and his party have no experience in governing. Salvini looks set to take over the Interior Ministry, which handles policing and immigration issues. The M5S and League alliance could be difficult to hold as they seek to implement a controversial agenda. The two parties have only a marginal majority in parliament. Italian governments are notoriously fragile and unstable. Their government would be the 58th since World War II. Silvio Berlusconi (R) and his Forza Italia entered a four-party electorial alliance including League in the March elections that secured the bloc 37 percent. Berlusconi is now upset at his right-wing ally Salvini after the League leader moved to work with M5S. Berlusconi has said he would act as a "reasonable and scrutinising opposition." President Sergio Mattarella must agree to the parties' prime minister nomination, who must then be approved by parliament. A former constitutional court judge, Mattarella is able to veto any legislation from the next government that is unconstitutional. Author: Chase Winter Conte first entered the spotlight ahead of the March 4 election, when his name was put forward by M5S as a possible Minister of Public Administration in charge of cleaning up Italy's notoriously complex bureaucracy. "First we have to drastically abolish useless laws," Conte said at the time. Read more: Italy's M5S-League coalition is risky business Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xTVw Career in academia Born in 1964 in the village of Volturara Appula in Puglia, Conte studied law in Rome, before going on to study in Vienna, Paris, Cambridge and New York. He is currently a professor of privacy law at Florence University, with previous teaching stints at Yale, Cambridge and the Sorbonne. He also serves on the board of several academic bodies and has taken part in conferences on judicial issues hosted by M5S. Read more: Italy between debt and utopian dreams Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xrGF According to Italian media, Conte's WhatsApp account displays a photo of former US President John F. Kennedy, as well as one of his quotations: "Every accomplishment starts with the decision to try." He has also been quoted as saying that he used to vote for the left, but that "the ideologies of the 20th century are no longer adequate (for 21st century politics)." M5S and the League named Conte as their prime minister pick following weeks of deadlock - after inconclusive elections in March. The parties last week unveiled their joint agenda, including plans to cut taxes, boost welfare spending, expand migrant deportations and ease austerity. If Conte's appointment is confirmed by President Sergio Mattarella, he will then present a list of Cabinet members for the president's approval, and the government will be subject to confidence votes in both houses of parliament. nm/gsw (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.