If a threat is constant, you're going to get used to it. That stands to reason, doesn't it? That's how it is for people who live in bush fire zones in the United States and Australia, perhaps even for those in Portugal and Spain. And it's got to be the case for residents on Hawaii's Big Island. Otherwise, why would you live surrounded by five or six of the world's most "famous" volcanoes - one of which has been a near constant threat for 35 years? That's Kīlauea. It's been erupting since January 3, 1983 when a cinder and spatter cone on its eastern rift zone opened up. And that cone is Pu'u 'Ō'ō. The US Geological Survey says Pu'u 'Ō'ō "ranks as the longest and most voluminous known outpouring of lava from Kīlauea's East Rift Zone in more than 500 years." Read more: If you live near one of these volcanos, move! Fountains of lava and ensuing lava flows have "repeatedly challenged residents." And that's putting it lightly. Up to the end of 2016, lava from Pu'u 'Ō'ō  had covered more than 144 square kilometers (55.5 square miles), it had spewed about 4.4 cubic kilometers (1.1 cubic miles) of lava, added 179 hectares (443 acres) of new land to Kīlauea's southeastern shore … and destroyed 215 "structures." For "structures" read "homes" When a series of earthquakes started to shake the Big Island in late April to early May, residents of Leilani Estates knew time was running short. By May 3, three separate fissures had opened up in the area, showing the first outbreaks of lava. Seismic activity had been on the up for a few days when a 6.9 magnitude quake struck on May 4 at about 12:32 p.m. Hawaii Standard Time (22:32 UTC) - the strongest on Hawaii since 1975 - located only 16 kilometers from Leilani Estates. Soon after, there was another strong quake and a series of about 152 smaller aftershocks. By the evening of May 5, a new fissure had erupted, producing lava fountains as high as 70 meters (230 feet) in the air. A fissure is a fracture or crack. Lava can spurt from a fissure for a matter of hours or days, and it sometimes flows back into the crack. That's known as "drainback." A new fissure on Luana Street in Leilani Estates spurts lava 70 meters into the air At least seven fissures have been reported so far, with rockfalls and ashy plumes expected to continue for a while. What is already certain, however, is that people have lost their homes, and most likely everything in them. What did you expect? It's a callous thing to say at this moment, "big surprise!" But in some of the earliest coverage, a local resident told reporters from an American network that she had heard people say just that. "What did you expect? You're living on a volcano." And that is true. Hawaii is basically one big volcano - or, to be a little more precise, a string of land and seamount volcanoes. There are at least 17 land volcanoes, depending on your interpretation of the science (some don't include Pu'u 'Ō'ō, presumably because it is just a cone), and then there's the entire Emperor Seamount chain. Alone on the Big Island, there's Kilauea, Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, Hualālai, and Kohala. On Maui, Hawaii's second largest island, there's the West Maui Mountains, and Haleakalā, which accounts for about 75 percent of the entire island. Despite these facts, Hawaii remains relatively well populated. It is, after all, what another American network reporter described these passed days as "paradise." According to statistics from Onboard Informatics, a company that says it has "data on every property in the country [USA]," reproduced by a real estate website called Point2Homes, the population around Kilauea has increased by 2.5 percent since 2010 - despite said constant threat. Population within 5 km [Source: Global Volcanism Program] Lava rises from a fissure on Kilauea, seeping through trees and onto a road But perhaps that is what makes such danger zones around volcanoes, or indeed Australian and Californian bush lands that burn like clockwork, so attractive. They are cheaper than elsewhere because they are more dangerous than elsewhere, except on one price point: insurance. Many Hawaii residents are asking themselves today whether their home insurance will cover them for their losses. The answer is probably an emphatic, "No! What did you expect?" Read more: Moving hot spots: Scientists explain mystery bend in Hawaii-Emperor volcano chain Life and other dangers One local resident told Reuters reporters that he knew it was risky living in Leilani, but "if you want to live in Hawaii, it's really your only option." That's thanks - or perhaps not so much thanks - to the USGS's Hazard Ratings map for the Big Island. Leilani is in Zone 1, where lava flows are "most likely to occur." And that's keeping house prices down. Conversely, it would be tough to get any insurance firm to cover you. End of the road ... at least it is for this road in Leilani Estates But even if you managed to get insurance, and you could afford it, why would you live on a volcano if you could live somewhere less dangerous? Because it's not just the lava you have to worry about, coming to burn your house, possessions, or you. It's also the potential for clouds of toxic gasses that volcanoes often emit - gasses such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, hydrogen sulfide and hydrogen halides. All these gases can be hazardous to people, animals, agriculture, and property, when their concentrations become high enough in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide can be lethal. Sulfur dioxide irritates eyes, skin and the respiratory system. In extreme cases, hydrogen sulfide, a nasty smelling "sewer gas" that you can't always smell, causes unconsciousness … and death. And survive all that, hydrogen halides can fall as a kind of acid rain in ash-producing eruptions, such as the current one at Kilauea, poisoning water supplies, agricultural crops and grazing land. In a word, that would have to be paradise lost.  In January 2017, Sergio Tapiro Velasco was 12 kilometers from the Colima volcano in Mexico when it erupted: "I suddenly heard a big loud bang, then I saw the hot lava flow down the mountain and the giant ash cloud that rose to the sky." He reacted quickly and snapped this shot, which won him the main prize at the International Mountain Summit photo contest. The Mountain Action category focuses on people who are active in mountain sports. Patrick Steiner climbed high to take this winning photo of the Arlberg in Austria just before sunset. Jona Salcher captured this mystical moment on the Seceda in the Dolomites, Italy. It won in the Mountain Nature category that highlights how mountains' "interplay with nature creates ever new perspectives and captivating sights," according to an International Mountain Summit release. Slackliners from Vienna hang out at the Peilstein in Austria in this photo by Sebastian Wahlhuetter, the winner in the Team Spirit category. They were inspired by an old tradition: "In the Himalayas it is a tradition that flags can be hung on the summits as a sign of peace, compassion, strength and wisdom," Wahlhuetter said. He wanted to recreate such a flag in the Austrian mountains. Maurizio Casula took this photo of Mount Klifatindur in Stockness, Iceland. It won in the Mountain Water category. Said Casula: "I took this picture on my first trip to Iceland and immediately felt an inner peace that I had never felt before." This year was the first time that the International Mountain Summit awarded a winner in the category Mountain Mobile. Christine Trebo took this shot of the Gran Cir in the Dolomites with her smartphone. The category Mountain Faces calls for pictures that tell stories through human expressions. Anton Yankovyi took this year's winning image of a young boy the photographer met at the foot of the Manaslu trek in Nepal. Stefan Schlumpf took this photo of a risky balancing act that won second place in the Mountain Action category. Unlike with the first place winners, there is no additional information provided on the runner-up photos. Mauro Gambicorti won second place in the Team Spirit category. His image shows that climbing a mountain is not a solo effort. This other-worldly shot won Michele Cimini second place in the Mountain Nature category. In the first-time category Mountain Mobile, second place went to Carlos Noriega for this picture. Dario Fernando Marelli won second place in the Mountain Water category for capturing this snowy landscape. The second place in the Mountain Faces category went to Roland Reinstadler for this up-close-and-personal photo. Author: Carla Bleiker