Japanese director Hirokazu Kore-eda landed a surprise win at the Cannes Film Festival with his drama "Shoplifters," bringing the 71st annual Cannes Film Festival to a close. The director accepted the award in Japanese and dedicated it to the whole production team involved in the movie. The story focuses on a group of Tokyo misfits and crooks who form an alternative family by taking in a child found on the streets. The film has been referred to as a modern day "Oliver Twist." US director Spike Lee meanwhile won the runner-up Grand Prix prize for his film "BlacKkKlansman". The movie tells the story of a black police man who infiltrates the Klu Klux Klan. Kazakhstan's Samal Yeslyamova won the award as best actress for playing a jobless single mother in Sergey Dvortsevoy's "Ayka". Italian actor meanwhile Marcello Fonte won the best actor aware at Cannes for his performance in Matteo Garrone's revenge movie "Dogman." Polish filmmaker Pawel Pawlikowski won the best director award for his love story, "Cold War," set during the 1940s and 1950s of Poland's communist rule. Two films meanwhile were awarded the best screenplay award: Italian drama "Happy as Lazzaro" by Alice Rohrwacher and Iranian drama "3 Faces" by Nader Saeivar and Jafar Panahi. In 2017, the top prize went to the Swedish satire "The Square," which later went on to bag an Oscar nomination. The long, dark shadow of #MeToo But beyond the prize winners, the 71st Cannes Film Festival, which ran May 8 - 19, will likely be remembered for some of its off-screen moments. This was the first edition of the Cannes festival since the establishment of the #MeToo movement, following the downfall of Hollywood film producer Harvey Weinstein over accusations of major sexual misconduct by dozens of women. At the closing night of the Cannes Film Festival, Italian actress Asia Argento announced that she was one of the women forced into having sex with Weinstein in 1997 when she was 21 years old. The alleged rape happened during the Cannes Film Festival, she added. "This festival was his hunting ground. I want to make a prediction: Harvey Weinstein will never be welcomed here ever again," Argento said. Volker Schlöndorff garnered Germany's first Palme d'Or with the film version of the book "The Tin Drum" in 1979. Wim Wenders followed up in 1984 with "Paris, Texas," taking the audience and jury by storm. It also brought global recognition to the "New German Film" genre. Nastassja Kinski (shown here) played, alongside Harry Dean Stanton, the role of her career. Festival audiences loved the film "Blue is the Warmest Color" four years ago. French director Abdellatif Kechiche told the love story between two young women in such an intense and expressive way that the jury awarded the Palme d'Or not only to the director, but also to the two fantastic actresses, Léa Seydoux und Adèle Exarchopoulos. The 2009 Cannes jury quickly agreed that "The White Ribbon" was the most deserving film that year. Munich-born Austrian director Michael Haneke received the Palme d'Or for a film that managed to portray the stifling atmosphere of a small northern German town just before the outbreak of World War I. In 2012, Haneke received his second Golden Palm for his drama "Amour." Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" from 1994 became a cult classic. The complex story, told playfully and ironically, took American cinema to a whole new level. The film would go on to have a significant influence on directors and screenplay writers. Just a year earlier, the Golden Palm winner had also caused a sensation – but the kind that was long overdue. Director Jane Campion of New Zealand received the top accolade for her melancholy emigration drama about a pianist who couldn't speak. Campion became the first woman to claim the prestigious award. In 1990, the Palme d'Or winner stirred up controversy. David Lynch's wild and somewhat violent road movie divided the jury – until jury president Bernardo Bertolucci of Italy got his way. The genre-bending "Wild at Heart" prepared audiences for films from the likes of Quentin Tarantino. Cannes doesn't only present American and Western European films. In 1982, "Yol" became the first Turkish movie to win the Palm d'Or. Filmmaker Şerif Gören had to fill in on the project for director and screenplay writer Yılmaz Güney, who had to flee Turkey in 1981 for political reasons. Güney died of stomach cancer in 1984. The 1979 competition proved memorable because the jury, presided over by French writer Françoise Sagan, couldn't agree on a winner – so they chose two. Along with Francis Ford Coppola's Vietnam War film "Apocalypse Now," Volker Schlöndorff also took home a trophy for "The Tin Drum," based on the book by Günter Grass. Golden Palm winners often reflect the aesthetic developments in the world of cinema. In 1970, the jury demonstrated intuition by selecting the anti-war black comedy "MASH." Six years later, Martin Scorsese's "Taxi Driver," starring Jodie Foster and Robert De Niro, won the Palme d'Or. Both represented New Hollywood, which saw directors take more control over movie-making than production studios. Spanish-Mexico director Luis Buñuel received the Palme d'Or in 1961 for "Viridiana." Just three days after he accepted the award in Cannes, the film was banned in Spain because the Franco regime wasn't pleased with the director's anticlerical, anti-capitalistic approach. Today, "Viridiana" is considered a masterpiece of surrealist cinema. Author: Jochen Kürten (kbm, als) After the Weinstein scandal broke, dozens of further women in the film industry came forward accussing several Hollywood heavyweights of abusing their power to seek sexual favors. Australian actress Cate Blanchett was the head of the jury at Cannes this year Hollywood stars including Cate Blanchett, Kristen Stewart, Helen Mirren and Salma Hayek as well as directors Ava DuVernay and Patty Jenkins organized a red-carpet protest to demand equal opportunities in the business and a "safe workplace" for women and men alike. Australian actress Cate Blanchett headed this year's jury while US-American actress Kristen Stewart and director Ava DuVernay were among its members. Festival organisers also signed a formal pledge to encourage more gender parity in its selection by 2020, saying they hoped it would help set an industry standard. Cannes has been criticized for years for the gender imbalance in films selected for screening at the festival. Read more: Cannes: female movie stars demand improved gender equality ss/jm (AFP, AP, dpa)