The European Commission is due to present a draft directive aimed at reducing plastic pollution in cities and oceans by banning several plastic products, according to German media reports on Sunday. The exact plans will be revealed on Monday. The commissioners have warned that if nothing is done, there will be more plastic in the oceans than fish by 2050. Read more: Earth Day — Time for a plastic-free planet What they are planning According to reports by public broadcaster ARD and newspapers belonging to the Funke Media Group, Commission officials say the draft law will include the following: Read more: Bottled water not safe from microplastic contamination Microplastics are defined as smaller than 5 milimeters in diameter. But these tiny particles accumulate in the sea, can enter the food chain, and are even found in the air. Personal care products containing microplastics, such as toothpaste, represent one of the most common intentional uses of microplastics in our daily lives. Some cosmetic products can contain as much plastic added as the amount of plastic in which they are packaged, experts indicate. Exfoliating daily washes very often use of microplastics, often termed "micro-beads," which then get flushed into the household wastewater stream. Via wastewater, microplastics reach the oceans, where they move enter the food chain through feeding zooplankton. In 2017, researchers found that 25 percent of marine fish tested in markets in Indonesia and California had plastic and textile fibers in their guts. Research is still lacking as to whether consuming microplastics through fish harms humans. Several studies published in 2017 showed that microplastics have also been found in sea salt from the United States, Europe and China. It's not surprising, considering how plastic debris represent between 60 to 80 percent of the total marine waste, and that up to 12 million tons of plastic waste ends up in the ocean every year. Beside microplastics in seafood like fish, shrimp and mussels, scientists point to other foods, such as honey. In the recently adopted European Union plastics strategy, honey was mentioned as one of the food products containing microplastics — to motivate a push toward a ban. Aside from micro-beads in hygiene products, synthetic textiles also release a vast amount of tiny plastic fibers into wastewater. Researchers found that a typical 6-kilogram (13-pound) washing load of acrylic-fabric items (like fluffy blankets) generates more than 700,000 individual fibers. Synthetic fabrics account for around a third of ocean microplastics. Vehicles tires are also a main source releasing microplastics into the environment. Tires are made of synthetic polymers mixed with rubber, which grinds down when used. This generates microplastics that are either blown around by the wind or washed away by rain. Norwegian and Swedish researchers agree that a large proporation of particles found in the sea come from car tires. Microplastics have also been found in tap water. In an analysis of tap water samples from countries around the world, more than 80 percent were contaminated with some amount of plastic fibers. If synthetic fibers are in tap water, they are also likely to be in a number of other basic foodstuffs, like bread. And yes, if tap water contains microplastics, beer could very well also be contaminated. A 2014 study found plastic particles in a total of 24 German beers - but variability in the results was high, and further research would needed for verification, the German Environment Agency has pointed out. In any case, cheers for now. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz 'Gradually taken out of circulation' The German government signaled its approval of the European Commission's plans in comments to ARD. Environment Minister Svenja Schulze told the broadcaster that single-use plastics "should be regulated at a European level and be gradually taken out of circulation." Günther Oettinger, the EU Budget Commissioner, defended a proposed fine on member states who fail to recycle more plastic, telling the Funke Media Group: "This creates an incentive for national politicians to examine how plastic waste can be reduced — through bans, education, a national tax or a fee for plastic shopping bags." Read more: EU unveils plan to make all plastic packaging recyclable by 2030 Possible pushback: The EU is hoping to fend off consumer anger over the possible changes by educating the public about environmentally friendly alternatives to the plastic products that may end up being banned. The threat of fines is not likely to go over well with the euroskeptic national governments of some EU member states.  Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2yLXw The danger of plastic waste: Plastic waste poses life-threatening dangers to ocean-dwellers, birds and animals further up the food chain. Many animals consume the waste or get caught in it, eventually becoming sick and possibly dying as a result. What's more, microplastics take thousands of years to degrade, meaning the plastic trash that's blowing around on the street or landing in lakes, rivers and oceans will remain there for some time. What happens next? The European Commission is expected to present its plan on Monday. The draft directive must then be negotiated with the EU's 28 member states as well as the European Parliament before it can come into effect. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wE2Y Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.