A gunman who stabbed and shot dead two police officers before killing a 22-year-old man in a nearby vehicle in Liege on Tuesday was later shot dead by police. The country has been on alert since suicide bombers killed 32 people at Brussels airport and in the subway system in 2016. The city's police chief Christian Beaupere said the attacker wounded four other officers: "The goal of the attacker was to target the police." The fatalities were policewomen aged 45 and 53 years. The latter was a mother of twins. What we know so far Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2wU8N Terror probe opened Terrorism investigators took over the case within two hours of the shooting. "There are elements that point in the direction that this is a terrorist act," said Eric Van Der Sypt, spokesman for the Belgian federal prosecutor's office. The attacker was named by public broadcaster RTBF as a 36-year-old criminal and drug dealer who had been let out of prison on day-release on Monday. He appears to have been radicalized while in jail. Attack denounced Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel, who traveled to Liege with King Philippe, denounced the "cowardly and blind violence" in a post on Twitter. Interior Minister Jan Jambon said on Twitter: "Our thoughts are with the victims of this horrible act. We are in the process of establishing an overview of exactly what happened." French President Emmanuel Macron denounced a "terrible attack" and expressed the "solidarity of the French people with the Belgian people." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2Zj3i Terror nerves: Belgium remains on edge following several years of extremist Islamist activity, most notably the March 2016 "Islamic State" (IS) group suicide bombings on Brussels airport and a metro station which killed 32 people. Read more: Belgium charges suspect over 2016 Brussels attacks Extremist cells, previous shooting In January 2015, police smashed a terror cell in the town of Verviers that was planning an attack on police. The cell had links to Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the mastermind of the November 2015 Paris attacks. Liege was the scene of a shooting in 2011, when a gunman killed four people and wounded more than 100 others before turning the gun on himself. mm, jm/msh (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.