Hundreds of firefighters were called out Saturday to quell the blaze on the site of Europa-Park at Rust, a Rhine river town, roughly halfway between Freiburg and neighboring France's Strasbourg. The regional Badische Zeitung newspaper quoted park director Michael Mack as saying no-one had been hurt, but the attractions "Batavia" and "Norway" had been "completely lost." What we know so far: - A building described as a warehouse (Lagerhaus in German) caught fire early evening, prompting evacuations of several attractions. - Park management and police said initially no-one had been hurt. Late evening, public SWR broadcasting said four persons had been injured, comprising two employees and two firefighters. - Initial reports said other evening attractions were to continue, but police quoted by the German news agency DPA later said "the park has been completely evacuated." - As the fire broke out, 25,000 visitors were on site, say police. - Fire service crews were also called in from Karlsruhe and Freiburg, two major cities in Baden-Württemberg state, said local fire spokesman Michael Wege. - Europapark chief, Michael Mack, said two attractions had been "lost".  - At dusk, Wege said crews still "did not have the situation under control" but had striven to prevent the fire spreading to other attractions. - After dark, a police spokesman in the region's administrative city, Offenburg, said blaze was now under control but hot spots remained. - Residents of Rust were asked to keep windows and doors shut, according to the newspaper. Pictures showed thick clouds of smoke above the flat-roofed building and looming over attractions. What is Europa-Park? The site combines some 100 attractions and hotels and draws some 5.5 million visitors each year, according to its host town, Rust. It ranks as Europe's second most-visited amusement complex - after Disneyland Paris. Opened in 1975, it now spans 995,000 square meters (235 acres), divided into 18 themed areas, with some 100 fairground rides. Also on site are five upscale hotels and a camping grounds. Employed on site are 3,600 people. On its corporate website, Europa-Park [spelt Europapark in German) says its attractions indirectly secure 8.500 jobs in the region. What happens next? Park management hoped to reopen portions of Europa-Park on Sunday, but a decision on that would be made during the night, reported the Badische Zeitung newspaper. ipj/jm (dpa, AFP) 