"How many birds can be seen in one day?" That's the question thousands of birdwatchers around the world are asking as they mark Global Big Day, the most important birdwatching event of the year. The popular online database for birdwatchers, eBird, started the first Global Big Day in 2015 to challenge birdwatchers to join together to document as many bird species as possible within a 24-hour period. Read more: King of the skies: The return of the eagle The birding bonanza According to eBird's live statisticsat 1800 UTC/GMT: Read more: New technology helps citizens track migrating storks Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1BtAx Colombian president chirps in Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos wrote on Twitter: "With more than 1,900 species of birds we are now one of the preferred tourist destinations. This year we celebrate #GlobalBigDayColombia." The UK ambassador to Madagascar, Phil Boyle, wrote on Twitter: "Just submitted my first #GlobalBigDay list for birds at the British Embassy Residence in #Madagascar. Egrets, fodies and a kestrel." The United States Geological Survey (USGS) wrote on Twitter: "USGS biologists are doing their part for the #GlobalBigDay of #birding by studying waterfowl in CA wetlands." Global Big Day 2017: Last year, enthusiasts identified more than 6,600 bird species, according to eBird. The website said they hope to beat that number in 2018 with over 20,000 bird watchers from more than 160 countries expected to take part. Conservation efforts: eBird and its affiliate, Cornell University's Lab of Ornithology, hope to use information gleaned from the sightings to help conserve global bird populations. "The analysis of that data provides the scientific basis for well-reasoned, informed decisions on conservation policy," said Peter Hart, a member of the Lab's administrative board in a video promoting the event. Vultures usually don't travel long distances, instead, they rise to expand their field of vision. Their excellent eyesight allows the critically endangered species to scan the landscape below from a relatively static aerial position. The Common crane is a long distance migrant. Important staging areas exist anywhere from Sweden and Germany to China. The height stated here was recorded above the Himalayas. The birds also fly over the peaks of the Himalayas on their migratory path. Studies have found that they breathe more deeply and efficiently under low oxygen conditions. The Whooper swan is the Eurasian counterpart of the North American trumpeter swan. It's also the national bird of Finland, featured on the country's 1 euro coin. These birds are able to breed in high mountain areas because their eggs have less pores than those of lowland species and don't try out as quickly. The bird's embryos also seem to be genetically predisposed to absorbing particularly large amounts of oxygen. Bearded vultures are listed as 'near threatened' by the IUCN. And you better don't hunt one because according to Iranian mythology the birds are a symbol of luck and happiness. Whoever shoots one is supposed to die within forty days. It was just discovered that these duck-like waterfowls are among the world's highest flying birds. Like many others on this list, they cross the Himalayas to get to their breeding grounds. Author: Klaus Esterluss