France condemned US President Donald Trump on Saturday for comments he made during a National Rifle Association (NRA) event on Friday about the 2015 Parisian terrorist attacks. The outrage has come just over a week after Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron stressed their friendship during Macron's state visit to the US. Read more: Donald Trump, NRA double down on arming teachers following Florida school shooting Trump's offending remarks: Referring to the 2015 attack by Islamist terrorists, Trump told rifle owners: Read more: Opinion: Trump's tweet is repulsive, NRA video is chilling Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2xDOD 'Shameful' and 'obscene' France's Foreign Ministry said: "France expresses its firm disapproval of the comments by President Trump about the attacks of November 13, 2015 in Paris and asks for respect of the memory of the victims." Former French President Francois Hollande, who was in office at the time of the attacks, wrote on Twitter that Trump's remarks and gestures were "shameful" and "obscene." He added that the comments " said a lot about what he [Trump] thinks of France and its values." Hollande's prime minister at the time of the attacks, Manuel Valls, wrote on Twitter: "Indecent and incompetent. What more can I say?" Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo said Trump's description of the 2015 attacks was "contemptuous and unworthy." Read more: NRA ad sparks uproar with call to 'fight' Trump opponents French trauma: Gunmen loyal to the "Islamic State" stormed multiple locations in Paris, including outside the national stadium, cafes, bars, and the Bataclan club, in November 2015. Armed with assault rifles and suicide vests, they killed 130 people and wounded 350. UK surgeon also unhappy: Trump also commented on the lack of guns in the United Kingdom, comparing a London hospital to a "military war zone hospital" because of the purportedly large number of people needing treatment for knife attacks. The director of London's major trauma system said "to suggest guns are part of the solution [to combat knife crime] is ridiculous." Read more: Trump maintains laissez-faire position on gun control amp/aw (Reuters, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2npo9