Germany's Alexander Zverev survived a second round scare to eventually ensure his progress in Paris. The 21-year-old from Hamburg smashed a racket in frustration before finding his rhythm in the fourth to set up a meeting with 26th-seeded Bosnian Damir Dzumhur, who also came through a five-set match against Romania's Radu Albot. Zverev, who is seeded second but is yet to reach the last eight at a Grand Slam, produced his best tennis when under pressure against the world number 60 in a contest that lasted three hours and 24 minutes. Read more: Serena Williams victorious on Roland Garros return "I knew it was not going to be an easy match," said Zverev. "I'm very happy to be here with a five-set win, against somebody who has beaten great opponents during the clay court season." No sweat for Djokovic Former champion Novak Djokovic reached the third round for the 13th consecutive year by beating Spanish qualifier Jaume Munar 7-6, 6-4, 6-4. Djokovic, the 2016 Roland Garros champion and former world number one, is seeded 20 this year after struggling to rediscover his best form after returning from a right elbow injury. Djokovic is seeded 20 at Roland Garros after struggling to rediscover his best form after returning from injury. He wasn't at his best on Court Suzanne Lenglen, but goes on to face Spain's 13th seed Roberto Bautista Agut for a place in the last 16. The Serbian 12-time Grand Slam champion fired 39 winners but 33 unforced errors and was broken three times by Munar, the world 155. "I am very happy to be here on Suzanne Lenglen and see so many people and see the support," said Djokovic. Elsewhere on the men's side, fourth seed Grigor Dimitrov and last year's quarter-finalist Kei Nishikori both came through five-set marathons to advance. Dimitrov saw off young American Jared Donaldson 10-8 in the final set, with his opponent hit with fatigue in the final stages, while Japan's Nishikori was eventually too strong for France's Benoit Paire. Wozniacki dishes out a bagel Second seed Caroline Wozniacki was in fine form against, dropping just one game as she overwhelmed Spain's Georgina Garcia 6-1, 6-0. Second seed Wozniacki was in devastating form in Paris. The Dane overpowered Garcia in an utterly one-sided match to set up a third round meeting with France's Pauline Parmentier, who came from behind to beat compatriot Alize Cornet in three sets. Earlier in the day, world number one Simona Halep was also forced to dig deep after a sloppy first set against American Alison Riske. But the gulf in class was ultimately evident as Romania's Halep came through 2-6, 6-1, 6-1. American pair Sloane Stephens and Madison Keys had no problems as they came through their respective second round matches. Stephens strolled to a 6-2, 6-2 win against Poland's Magdalena Frech, with Keys beating fellow American Caroline Dolehide 6-4, 6-1. mds (AP, AFP, Reuters)