Denmark's parliament on Thursday approved a law forbidding the wearing of garments covering the face in public, joining a number of European countries that have already introduced such bans. The law is being seen by many as targeting the dress worn by some conservative Muslim women, such as the niqab or burqa, and is being introduced amid concerns about growing Islamophobia in Europe. Most Islamic scholars agree that the hijab, which covers the head and neck, and comes in any number of shapes and colors, must be worn by Muslim women. American teen Hannah Schraim is seen wearing one here while playing with her brother. The chador, which is usually black, is a body-length outer garmet often worn in Iran and among modern-minded women in the Gulf States, as here in Saudi Arabia. It is not fastened with clasps or buttons and therefore has to be held closed by the wearer. A niqab is a veil and scarf that covers the entire face yet leaves the eyes free. It covers a woman's hair, as it falls to the middle of her back and some are also half-length in the front so as to cover her chest. Here it is being worn by women attending a rally by Salafi radicals in Germany. An abaya is a loose-fitting, full-length garment designed to cover the body. It may come in many different styles, as seen here at an Arab fashion show, and is often worn in combination with hijab or niqab. The burqa is the most extensive of all Muslim garments, covering the entire body from head to toe. It traditionally has a woven mesh area around the eyes to allow women to see. In this case enabling them to cast their ballots in Pakistani parliamentary elections. Queen Rania of Jordan says that Islam does not coerce women to wear any head coverings, and that it is more important to judge a woman by her ethics and values, rather than what she wears. She is seen here meeting with refugees in Greece. Author: Jon Shelton What does the new law entail? Read more: Austrian full-face veil ban comes into effect 'Common sense' application Justice Minister Soeren Pape Poulsen called on police officers to use "common sense" when applying the law, which will come into force on August 1. Human rights group Amnesty International has called the ban "a discriminatory violation of women's rights," saying that "ll women should be free to dress as they please and to wear clothing that expresses their identity of beliefs." Read more: Reports: Morocco stops 
sale , production of 
full-face  veil Contentious theme:  The law has popularly been called a "burqa ban," with critics seeing such legislation as an expression of a rising Islamophobia in many European countries amid a recent surge in largely Muslim refugees coming to the continent. Austria, Belgium and France now have similar laws, while Germany and several other nations ban full-face veils in some public contexts. A 2010 report estimated, however, that only some 200 women in Denmark used such veils. Read more: Austrian burqa ban: Police raid toy store over a Lego Ninja Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2RDH7  tj/rt (AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here