The Lima Group of Latin American countries plus Canada said in a scathing statement on Monday that it did not recognize the result of Venezuela's presidential election and urged a swift response. Socialist leader Nicolas Maduro was re-elected for another six-year term on Sunday in a highly controversial vote that was boycotted by the opposition and condemned internationally. Read more: Venezuela's economic demise hovers over elections Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y3wr Lima decries vote In its statement, the 14 Lima Group nations vowed to recall their ambassadors and summon Venezuelan envoys stationed in their capitals, saying the vote failed to meet "international standards for a free, fair and transparent democratic process." The bloc also voiced alarm over the "serious humanitarian situation" and announced plans to hold a meeting in Peru next month to respond to the Venezuelan refugee crisis. It also urged international financial bodies to block new loans to the Venezuelan government and called on authorities in each of their countries to alert the financial sector to the risks of doing business with Caracas. Read more: Can Germany be a new home for young Venezuelans? Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues affecting security and sovereignty, effectively taking away the powers of the country's congress, which was under the opposition's leadership. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results of the elections. The traditional opposition parties have boycotted the vote. Having boycotted the elections and with its strongest leaders banned from running, the traditional opposition will not be present in the presidential elections. Only two candidates have emerged to challenge Maduro: Henri Falcon (pictured) and Javier Bertucci. Both have ties to the regime, but polls indicate that Falcon is the one who could present the most serious challenge. Author: Kathleen Schuster Mounting criticism According to official election results, Maduro won with nearly 68 percent of the vote, well ahead of his closest challenger, Henri Falcon, who finished on 21 percent. The statement from Lima adds to growing international pressure on Maduro in the wake of the weekend vote. US State Department officials called it a "sham" and repeated threats to impose sanctions on Venezuela's crippled oil sector. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said Spain and its European partners would "study appropriate measures and continue to work to alleviate Venezuelans' suffering." Read more: UN agency warns of humanitarian 'catastrophe' in Venezuela Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y252 Deepening crisis Venezuela's prolonged economic crisis has led to widespread food and medicine shortages, violent unrest and the exodus of more than a million people over the past two years. Critics accuse Maduro of gross mismanagement and attempting to stifle dissent, but the socialist leader says his country is the victim of an "economic war" waged by the United States. The Lima Group, which was created last year to deal with the Venezuela crisis, includes Peru, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Guatemala, Colombia, Honduras, Costa Rica, Panama, Paraguay, Santa Lucia and Canada. Read more: The Summit of the Americas warns Venezuela Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y3ZM nm/rc (Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.