Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said on Tuesday that the top US envoy to his country, Todd Robinson (pictured) and another US diplomat, Brian Naranjo, had 48 hours to leave the country.  The announcement came after Maduro accused Robinson of being involved in "a military conspiracy" against Caracas, adding that he would provide evidence shortly for the allegation. "Neither with conspiracies nor with sanctions will you hold Venezuela back," said Maduro, one day after US President Donald Trump signed an executive order authorizing new sanctions against Maduro's government. The US State Department has denied the "false allegations" against the two diplomats. Widely criticized vote The move came just after Venezuela's widely-condemned presidential election, in which Maduro won easily after barring his rivals from running and plying voters with a government-sponsored "prize." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2y3ZM The European Union said in a statement Tuesday that Sunday's vote had not complied with "minimum international standards for a credible process," and added that the bloc was considering an appropriate response. Venezuela's Foreign Ministry accused Washington of "political and financial lynching," with its new sanctions, which make it more difficult for Maduro to sell state assets. The country has been reeling from a series of economic crises brought about in large part to reforms made under Maduro and his predecessor Hugo Chavez. Hyperinflation is set to reach 13,800 percent this year according to the IMF amidst massive shortages in food and medicine. Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent National Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term on May 20 with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to the election body. However, the MUD opposition alliance, which boycotted the vote, put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States called the elections neither free nor fair. Author: Kathleen Schuster amp, es/rt (AFP, Reuters)