Less than two weeks after the Sulawesi earthquake and tsunami struck on September 28, the death toll had reached nearly 2,000. And thousands more were missing. The 7.5 magnitude earthquake triggered a tsunami, with waves up to 7 meters (23 feet) high. A nearby warning system, developed by the German Research Center for Geosciences (GFZ) "worked as planned," according to the organization's director of geoservices. But local authorities did not tell residents on Sulawesi to evacuate — a failure in the 'last mile' of the warning system. DW spoke to hydrologist Bapon Fakhruddin, who advises governments around the world on tsunami risk assessment. DW: What failed, exactly? Bapon Fakhruddin: The tsunami warning was not actually issued properly ... So that never happened. Do you feel Indonesia's authorities should have issued a warning? It depends on the level of capability within the tsunami warning center to analyze a threat ... And whether the criteria that needs to be satisfied to issue a warning was met — unless those criteria are satisfied, they will never issue a warning. Read more: Opinion: Indonesia must better prepare for the next tsunami There is video footage of a bunch of people standing in a concrete lookout structure as the wave comes in. So they seemed to have known it was coming. And yet there weren't any sirens? It's because they actually felt the shaking. So that's maybe the reason some people, when they felt the shock, moved to the higher ground. And then they were able to see — "OK, the tsunami is coming" — like we are able to see in all those tragic videos. Satellite images show the destruction in the city of Palu What is the best way to warn people? Is it loudspeakers and sirens? Is it a message to my phone? We have to have all sorts of mechanisms in place. So if one system fails, other systems are in place as well. The situation in Palu and Donggala was that the earthquake caused the electricity to shut down. And the siren did not function. Then the mobile [telecommunications] towers stopped working. Can you describe a system that would work? What would that be? We're currently designing a couple of rapid-alert notification systems for Pacific countries. They would enable you to broadcast to all media — so, social media, like Viber, WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, or other mobile communications; siren systems; high-frequency (HF) and very high-frequency (VHF) radio; community radio broadcasts; and low-frequency alert systems. So everything would be able to send out a broadcast within a few seconds' time, with a single button. That would ensure that, even if five out of your 10 systems fail, for instance, you would still have five functioning channels to send out the warning. Do you have tips for people in tsunami zones? What kinds of things should they have on hand? Maybe a small radio, if people are living in a very tsunami-prone area. There's also a system that exists where, if your mobile phone is out of radio frequency, it enables you to connect and put out some noise, to send an alert. This interview has been edited for length and clarity. On Friday, September 28, a massive tidal wave unleashed by a 7.5-magnitude quake slammed into the Indonesian city of Palu located on Sulawesi island. The impact washed away Palu's 300-meter (328 yard) double-arched bridge, plunging cars into the water. This satellite image from October 1 shows how Palu is built on lowlands at the end of a narrow bay. Scientists say the shape of the bay amplified the size and power of the waves by forcing the water into a narrow and shallow channel. The earthquake's epicenter was also located close to shore, making the waves more powerful and leaving little time for warning. The wave hit Palu, a city with a population of 380,000, on Friday evening as Muslim worshippers were gathering for evening prayers in local mosques. Authorities said that many others were caught on the beach while preparing a festival which was set to start later in the day. With local hospitals crowded by hundreds of wounded, doctors were forced to treat the injured outside. Komang Adi Sujendra, director of a Palu hospital, urged assistance. "We need all the help we can get," he said. "We need field hospitals, medical workers, medicines and blankets." On October 2, the official death toll of the tsunami and quake reached over 1,200. Authorities expect that number to rise as more people remain trapped. On October 1, the national disaster agency told AP that over 150 bodies were buried in a mass grave, with the burial operations onoing. Indonesia is a majority-Muslim nation, and religious custom calls for burial soon after death. The tsunami carried sand, mud and debris inland. Roads were blocked and communications disrupted with other cities. Rescue efforts in remote areas around Palu are being hampered by the extent of damage to infrastructure. More heavy equipment is also needed. The heavy earthquake caused sand and silt saturated by water to take on liquid characteristics in a process known as liquefaction. The national rescue agency said that over 1,700 houses in the Palu area were wiped out by liquefied soil. Authorities managed to open the local airport a day after the tsunami, allowing the Indonesian mlitary to start delivering aid. The country's President Joko Widodo (r) visited the island and pledged to rebuild the city. The Associated Press reported that Widodo has authorized international help. The EU and 10 countries including the US, Australia and China have offered assistance. Indonesian media showed images of survivors entering the heavily damaged malls and supermarkets to loot supplies, despite the risk of building collapse. Some Palu residents started returning to their homes to salvage usable items. German news agency dpa reported on October 2 that police arrested 45 people in Palu for looting. The earthquake and tsunami knocked out power to the island and left many residents without access to clean water and medical supplies. Some of them descended on gas stations to pump out fuel by hand for their generators. President Widodo has opened the door to foreign aid organizations as 200,000 people remain in desperate need of food, water and medicine. International Search and Rescue (ISAR) Germany has sent personnel to assist authorities. Authorities have announced that the search for the thousands still missing will be called off in the following days. Many are believed to be buried after mudslides engulfed entire neighborhoods. These areas will likely be declared mass graves and left in peace. Author: Darko Janjevic, Wesley Rahn