US President Donald Trump on Tuesday called for the presumption of innocence to apply to Saudi Arabia amid outrage over the disappearance of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Turkey. Sources in Turkey have said the US-based reporter was killed and dismembered inside a Saudi consulate in Istanbul two weeks ago. Trump had previously vowed "severe punishment" for those responsible. But the president softened his tone on Tuesday, telling the Associated Press that the US needed to "find out what happened first." "Here we go again with, you know, you're guilty until proven innocent," he said. "I don't like that." 'Full and complete investigation' Trump also called Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the heir apparent to the Saudi throne. "Just spoke with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia who totally denied any knowledge of what took place in their Turkish Consulate," Trump wrote on Twitter. The 33-year-old prince has already started "a full and complete investigation" into Khashoggi's fate, Trump said, pledging that answers "will be forthcoming shortly." US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met the crown prince in Riyadh on Tuesday evening. "I stressed the importance of them conducting a complete investigation into the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi. They made a commitment to do that," he told reporters traveling with him after boarding a plane for Ankara. "They said it would be a thorough, complete and transparent investigation," he said. "They indicated they understood that getting that done in a timely, rapid fashion so they could begin to answer important questions." Pompeo, his counterparts in the G7 — Britain, France, Japan, Germany, Canada and Italy — and the EU also said in a joint statement that the people responsible for Khashoggi's disappearance "must be held to account." Asked if the Saudis had said if Khashoggi was alive or dead, Pompeo said: "They didn't talk about any of the facts." Consulate searched Saudi officials have repeatedly rejected claims that Khashoggi died inside the consulate, but have not provided any evidence of him leaving the building. Several media outlets reported this week that Riyadh was preparing to backtrack on that claim and admit that Khashoggi died during a botched interrogation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36T3r On Tuesday, Turkish and Saudi teams conducted a nine-hour search of the diplomatic compound in Istanbul. The investigators were also set to search the Saudi consul's residence, but the move was called off because the Saudi side was not able to join, according to the Turkish police. Report links suspects with crown prince A Turkish security source told the Associated Press that the search of the consulate provided "strong evidence" that Khashoggi was killed there, but no conclusive proof. The same source said that the Saudi consul left Turkey and returned to Riyadh on Tuesday. Ankara had not requested for the diplomat to be withdrawn from the country. The New York Times reported separately that one member of the Saudi team who visited the consulate on the day of Khashoggi's disappearance was a frequent companion of the crown prince. The man, Maher Abdulaziz Mutreb, can be seen on photographs of Mohammed bin Salman's trips abroad, possibly serving as one of the prince's bodyguards, the newspaper said. Witnesses linked three other men to the prince's security detail, while another man was identified as a forensic doctor from the Saudi Interior ministry. Dozens of princes, former ministers and prominent businessmen have been detained across Saudi Arabia in an unprecedented anti-corruption campaign. The arrests happened after King Salman ordered the creation of an anti-corruption committee, headed by his son, Crown Prince Mohammed. The newly formed committee possesses wide ranging powers, including the ability to issue arrest warrants, freeze assets and impose travel bans. Saudi Arabia's crown prince has vowed to fight corruption in the world's top oil exporter. Thirty-two-year-old Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman al-Saud is widely regarded as the driving force behind opening up the ultra-conservative country. One of the arrested, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, is a billionaire and business tycoon who has extensive investments in Western companies such as Twitter, Apple, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, Citigroup, the Four Seasons hotel chains and the ride sharing service Lyft. One of the Middle East's richest persons, Prince Alwaleed, is also known for being one of the most outspoken Saudi royals. The detainees include ex-finance minister Ibrahim al-Assaf and former head of the royal court Khaled al-Tuwaijri. Three former state officials were also sacked earlier before being detained. "The homeland will not exist unless corruption is uprooted and the corrupt are held accountable," said a royal degree connected to the arrests. In other developments, the Saudi monarch removed the prominent prince in charge of the National Guard. The development followed the resignation of a close ally, Lebanon's prime minister Saad Hariri. These political developments further shake up Saudi Arabia and the greater Middle East as regional conflicts rage on the kingdom's borders. Author: Aasim Saleem dj/amp (dpa, AP, AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.