A woman was held hostage by a man for two hours at a pharmacy in Cologne's central railway station on Monday. At least two shots were fired when police stormed the pharmacy and ended the situation around two hours later. Authorities said the perpetrator sustained life-threatening injuries and emergency personnel were trying to revive him with CPR. It wasn't immediately clear how he sustained the injuries The hostage was receiving medical treatment for light injuries. A bomb unit was combing through the station to ensure explosives were not installed in the building. DW's Dana Regev, who was at the scene said Cologne's crisis negotiation unit had taken over part of the operation before police entered the pharmacy. Police refused to speculate whether the incident was terror related, said DW's David Martin who was also om the ground. Teenager seriously injured An eye witness told DW that a young woman fled a restaurant with her legs on fire. It is not clear whether the incident was related to the hostage situation. Police later said a 14-year-old girl was seriously injured with burns during the course of the hostage situation, German news agency dpa reported. Police said the teenager was not directly involved in the hostage situation and it was not clear from the police report when and how she was hurt. She has been taken to hospital. Major disruption Authorities ordered an evacuation of the station, which is a main hub for rail traffic across Germany and western Europe. Read more: German hostage drama: The day the press became the story Deutsche Bahn said the station will be closed until further notice and all traffic — including long-distance — has been suspended. Police appealed to locals to avoid the area for the time being. A man took a woman hostage at a pharmacy at Cologne train station around 12:45 p.m. (1045 UTC) on Monday, police said. Police believed the hostage-taker was armed. "We're doing everything to get the hostage out of there unharmed," police spokesman Christoph Gilles said initially. Cologne train station, one of the biggest in the country, was evacuated and cordoned off. Police urged locals to avoid the area and warned of likely disruptions to train services. Deutsche Bahn, Germany's main train operator, said the station would be closed until further notice and all traffic, including long-distance connections, had been suspended. DW's Dana Regev was at the scene and watched as negotiation crisis units. Police spokesman Christoph Gilles said they were working to find out "what the hostage-taker wants, what his demands are and whether he carries a weapon," adding that police were not aware of the man's motive. Police could not confirm eye-witness reports that shots and explosions were heard. Ambulances and heavily-armed police were lined up and waiting behind the train station. DW's Dana Regev reported that two shots had been fired inside the station. Police stormed the pharmacy and captured the hostage-taker. "The suspect is under control," Cologne police said. "A female hostage has sustained light injuries and is being tended to." Police would not speculate on whether the hostage situation was terror-related. Author: Louisa Wright ls,law/rt (AFP, dpa, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.