Julian Nagelsmann has only been a head coach for 104 matches, meaning new landmarks are not always as significant as they might appear. But the 30th loss of his career, 2-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt on Sunday, did throw up a couple of records that speak to the difficulties he's having at the moment. The defeat was the first time Hoffenheim had lost consecutive Bundesliga home games since Nagelsmann took over in February 2016 and the first time the 31-year-old's charges had lost three games in a row. Read more: Gnabry hails Nagelsmann as 'one of the best' "It's not very much fun at the moment," admitted the German boss, after goals from Ante Rebic (who was later sent off) and Luka Jovic were enough for the visiting Eagles despite a late strike from Arsenal loanee Reiss Nelson. "We created so many opportunities without scoring any goals, then we made it easy for the opposition and virtually scored two own goals. That's depressing," said defender Kevin Vogt. It took Weston McKennie 33 games to open his Schalke account, now he can't stop hitting the net. The American youngster opened the scoring in this one after scoring the winner against Lokomotiv Moscow in midweek. Guido Burgstaller made it safe for Schalke, who have now won three in a row without conceding. But McKennie wasn't the only American having fun on Saturday. Bobby Wood (left) was handed his first start since moving to Hannover and rewarded his coach Andre Breitenreiter with quickfire headed double before halftime. Mario Gomez pulled one back for Stuttgart after the break but Ihlas Bebou made it safe late on as the hosts held on for their first league win of the season. Paco Alcacer's stunning injury time freekick completed his hat-trick and won his team a pulsating game at Signal Iduna Park. Dortmund twice trailed their visitors before Alcacer and Mario Götze (in his first league appearance of the season) put them ahead for the first time. When Roman Bürki spilt Michael Gregoritsch's header in to the net on 87 minutes, it looked all over. Not quite. If before it was a blip, it's now most certainly a crisis by Bayern Munich's lofty standards. An excellent 9th minute strike from French forward Alassane Plea gave the visitors the lead before Thiago's error allowed Lars Stindl to score on his return from a severe ankle injury. The comeback many expected never came and Patrick Herrmann completed the rout late on. A game low on quality, chances and - from the looks of it - spectators saw these sides share the points. Even Ondrej Duda, the Bundesliga's top scorer before this weekend couldn't summon up anything to steal the points. The result keeps Hertha in the Champions League spots and Mainz safely in midtable. Davy Klaassen showed how quickly he is settling in at his new club by delivering a game-winning performance in a gritty match. The Dutchman's goal on the volley in the box 10 minutes before the break gave Werder confidence in a game where Wolfsburg had passages of pressure. Forty-year-old Claudio Pizarro came off the bench to set up fellow sub Johannes Eggestein for the second late on. There are still big questions hovering over Heiko Herrlich and Bayer Leverkusen after a disappointing draw away at Freiburg. Lucas Alario had a couple of good chances for the visitors while Luca Waldschmidt struck the post late on for the hosts, whose coach Christian Streich ended the day the happier of the two bosses. After 2-1 home defeats to RB Leipzig and Manchester City, Hoffenheim lost again by the same score at home to Eintracht Frankfurt. Frankfurt took a two-goal lead in Sinsheim thanks to a long-range lob from Ante Rebic and a low drive from Luka Jovic. Rebic later saw red while Hoffenheim pulled a goal back through Reiss Nelson, but Eintracht hung on for a third straight win in all competitions. "We will learn from this," promised Nuremberg coach Michael Köllner after his side crashed to a 7-0 defeat away at Borussia Dortmund two weeks ago - but few lessons appear to have been learned as "The Club" shipped six in the Red Bull Arena. Marcel Sabitzer and Timo Werner both scored twice for RB, the latter also seeing a penalty saved after Nuremberg were reduced to ten men in the second half. Author: Jonathan Harding "We have seven points, that's a paltry total, we shouldn't gloss over that. We don't need to be looking above us at the moment and have to take the situation as it is." Shaky at both ends of the field The recent slump has seen TSG fall to 13th, two points from the relegation zone and seven from the Champions League spots they occupied last term. While Nagelsmann endured some difficult times around the turn of the year last season, this is as bleak as it's got since he started life in the hot seat by pulling his seemingly-doomed side away from trouble in 2016. That a poor start to the season should mark a low point is testament to the levels of over-achievement Nagelsmann has normalized in his tenure. Nevertheless, the former youth coach is not a man given to resting on his laurels and he'll surely be poring over the reasons why his team have suddenly become profligate up top and leaky at the back. "Currently, we don't have the quality to win games like that," admitted Nagelsmann on Sunday. It takes only a quick glance at the club's recent transfer outgoings to see why. In the past two seasons, Hoffenheim have lost the services of  Serge Gnabry (who was on loan for the whole of last season), Mark Uth, Sebastian Rudy and Niklas Süle. The latter three are all in Germany's current squad while Gnabry would likely be involved in the national team setup but for an injury-interrupted start to life back at Bayern. Gnabry and Uth racked up 24 goals and 15 assists between them last term and while Adam Szalai and Andrej Kramaric have chipped in, attacking summer signings Leonardo Bittencourt, Vincenzo Grifo and Ishak Belfodil have yet to hit the heights of the men they replaced. End of the road in sight On the plus side, young Brazilian forward Joelinton has shown promise, while Arsenal loanee Nelson has two Bundesliga goals in just 90 minutes of game time. Injuries, particularly to key defensive personnel, have also taken their toll, with a relatively small squad stretched by the Champions League - where Hoffenheim have impressed but taken only one point from their first two games. Nagelsmann's ability to improve players is one of his strengths but he knows that Nelson, for one, is unlikely to stick around beyond this season. Neither is the coach himself. With a move to RB Leipzig in time for the 2019-20 season already agreed, Nagelsmann seems to have accepted, quite reasonably, that he's taken Hoffenheim as far as anyone could. But as both a perfectionist and a dedicated professional, Nagelsmann will not want his tenure in Sinsheim to end on a negative note. Problematic moments will always arise in any coaching career and success in dealing with them is a critical part of the job. The last, and so far only, other time he's struggled like this, Nagelsmann came out smelling of roses. After picking up five points from their seven games between December 10 2017 and February 3 2018, Hoffenheim picked up 27 points from the last available 39 to secure their highest ever league finish. Anything like a repeat of that recovery would send the stock of one of the world's most promising coaches soaring once again. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/368kA 