The genesis of Germany's peace movement The origins of Germany's peace movement date back all the way to the 19th century. In 1892, Bertha von Suttner was among those who founded the German Peace Society (DFG) umbrella organization to represent all pacifists in the German Empire at the time. Several decades later, it merged with groups representing conscientious objectors and renamed itself the German Peace Society - United War Resisters (DFG-VK). It remains one of the biggest organizations of its kind today. Germany's peace movement, however, really began gathering momentum in the mid-20th century when fears World War III could break out were at their highest. Separated by the Iron Curtain, former West Germany and East Germany marked part of the dividing line between Western NATO states and the eastern Warsaw Pact alliance and would likely have been decimated had the Cold War turned hot. Read more: Prepare for a 'new Cold War' without INF, Russia analyst says  Tens of thousands took to Germany's streets to push for peace in the 1960s Nuclear scientists speak out against German nuclear weapons In 1955, exactly 10 years after the end of World War II, West Germany reestablished its armed forces, now called the Bundeswehr. Large parts of the country's population, however, objected to the remilitarization. Two years later, 18 highly esteemed nuclear scientists, among them Otto Hahn and Werner Heisenberg, published a manifesto criticizing West German government plans to acquire nuclear weapons. The protest letter helped catalyze the "Fight Nuclear Death" movement, which built on a broad alliance of Germany's Social Democrats (SPD), unions, the Protestant church and others. By the late 1950s, as the SPD began shifting more towards the center of the political spectrum and away from calls to do away with capitalism, independent civil society actors began driving the anti-nuclear movement. In the early 1960s, annual Easter marches for peace began being held with protesters calling for an end to the Vietnam War and lambasting the German Emergency Acts, which granted West Germany's government far-reaching powers in times of crisis. Read more: Donald Trump's INF exit: Masterminded by John Bolton, to Russia's benefit Many opposed stationing US nuclear weapons in Germany Major rallies against nuclear arms race By the 1980s, Germany's peace movement — now largely backed by the Greens, unions, parts of the SPD and various churches — became a vocal critic of the ongoing nuclear arms race between the United States and its Soviet counterpart. In 1980, the movement issued the so-called "Krefeld manifesto," which demanded the West German government rescind its permission for new US nuclear-armed cruise missiles and Pershing II weapons systems to be stationed on its territory. The protest movement ultimately grew into the biggest mass movement Germany had ever seen, in part because both West Germany and East Germany would have sustained extreme destruction in case of all-out nuclear war between both superpowers. When the West German parliament agreed to the deployment of the US nuclear weapons in 1983, mass protests ensued. More than 1 million people attended four simultaneous peace rallies across West Germany, demanding governments pursue arms control and disarmament schemes. In East Germany, a peace movement — independent of the one-party state — emerged as well. Germany's peace movement expanded in the late 1990s to fight racism and xenophobia After German reunification The widespread fear of nuclear annihilation faded with the end of the Cold War when Washington and Moscow signed various disarmament treaties. Germany's peace movement gradually shifted its attention to the fight against arms exports, then expanded to address the problem of racism, and began championing the right to asylum. Read more: A sign of peace: The iconic anti-war symbol 60 years on In the early 1990s and 2000s, several hundred thousand peace activists took to the streets of Germany to protest against the first and second Gulf War, respectively. The movement never, however, regained the kind of following it had during the 1980s. US President Donald Trump's threat to pull out of the Cold War-era Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty, meanwhile, could well change that. German Chancellor Angela Merkel's government voiced immediate concern over US President Donald Trump's threats to pull out of the INF nuclear arms treaty with Russia. Berlin said it "regrets" Washington's decision, adding that it urged Russia to "dispel the serious doubts about its adherence to the treaty that had arisen as a result of a new type of Russian missile." German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said that Trump's move poses "difficult questions for us and for Europe" since the INF treaty is "an important pillar of our European security architecture." Maintaining the level of security in Europe was the primary concern of German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen. "Regardless of whether the treaty has to be saved or renegotiated, it is important that all NATO states be included in the discussion," she told reporters during a trip to China. The International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN), which won a Nobel Peace Prize last year, called on Berlin to intervene in the tug-of-war between the US and Russia. The potential threat to people living in Europe is massive, warned Johannes Mikeska, the head of ICAN's Germany branch. "That's why it is urgent for the German government to now mediate between the US and Russia," he said. The Greens described Trump's move as "absolutely fatal." Annalena Baerbock, the co-leader of the Greens, urged Merkel's government to take a stand against Washington by getting rid of the US nuclear weapons still stationed in Germany. "If the German government is serious about its appeals to the US government, it must now say: 'We are ending Germany's nuclear participation,'" she said. Christian Lindner, the leader of the business-friendly Free Democrats (FDP), said although he thinks Trump's decision is "dangerous," Washington's reasoning was sound. "What's correct is that Putin isn't adhering to the INF!" Lindner wrote on Twitter. The FDP chief also slammed the Greens' proposal to remove US weapons from Germany, saying it would leave Germany "defenseless." The deputy leader of the FDP, Alexander Graf Lambsdorff, told DW that he was deeply concerned about the type of cruise missiles that were prohibited by the treaty. He noted that it "concerns a category of weapons that would reach Europe — not the continental United States." He added that he believes the treaty can be saved "if all sides share the intention of avoiding a really ruinous arms race." Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier