French singer Charles Aznavour has died at the age of 94, French media reported on Monday, citing his spokesman. French President Emmanuel Macron, a fan of the singer described as "France's Frank Sinatra," paid tribute to Aznavour on Twitter shortly after the news of his death was made public. "Deeply French, viscerally attached to his Armenian roots, known all over the world, Charles Aznavour accompanied three generations through their joys and pains," Macron wrote. "His masterpieces, his tone, his unique brilliance will live far beyond him." The musician wrote more than 1,000 chansons. Many of them, such as "La Boheme," "Hier encore," "La Mamma" and "She," became worldwide hits performed by legends such as Shirley Bassey, Ray Charles, Sammy Davis Jr., Liza Minnelli and Nina Simone. Aznavour could sing in seven languages, and in Germany his "Du lässt dich geh'n" ("You're Lettin' Yourself Go"), addressed to a lover less than concerned with her upkeep, is a cult classic.  The multi-talented Frenchman could also act, appearing in Volker Schlöndorff's The Tin Drum and in Francois Truffaut's masterpiece Shoot the Piano Player, where he portrayed a degenerate bar pianist.  He also appeared on camera for French filmmaker Claude Chabrol and for Canadian director Atom Egoyan, starring in the latter's 2002 film Ararat about the genocide of Armenians in present-day Turkey. Known for her song "Parlez-moi d'amour," the grande dame of French chanson has had an eventful life. During World War II her family joined the resistance and faced much hardship. She later joined existentialist circles and was supported by Jean-Paul Sartre. She never became as famous as Edith Piaf - perhaps because her songs were too political. Click through the gallery for more chanson greats. "Non, je ne regrette rien" became an international hit. The "litte sparrow of Paris," as the petit Edith Piaf (1915-1963) was affectionately called ("piaf" is slang for "sparrow"), had a very big voice. The singer was already 44 years old when she achieved her breakthrough with the song that became the epitome of French chanson. "Göttingen" - of all things. The small town in the German state of Hesse was honored in a chanson by the French singer in 1964 - an attempt to reconcile France and Germany. Barbara (1930-1997) sings of her memories, as well as her visit to the birthplace of the Brothers Grimm. After meeting musicians Jacques Brel and Georges Brassens in the 1950s, she sang their songs as well. Love, pain, solitude - the major chansons themes were also touched on in the songs of Françoise Hardy (*1944). Her hit "Tous les garçons et les filles" shot her to fame when she was just 18 years old. In the late 1960s, she performed a song by German singer Udo Jürgens. From the 1970s onwards, she gave only a few performanes - due to her stage fright. The chanson singer and actress damaged her reputation by joining the France's right-wing political scene. Brigitte Bardot (*1934) became successful as a singer in the 1960s after performing with Serge Gainsbourg. Her biggest hits were "Harley Davidson" and "Je t'aime... moi non plus." Bardot stopped performing and acting in 1973. The singer from Lorraine can look back on a successful career. The late 1980s saw the release of Patricia Kaas' (*1966) debut album "Mademoiselle chante..." that sold more than 15 million copies. She was discovered by actor Gérard Depardieu, who produced her first single "Jalouse." Her album "Kaas chante Piaf" was released in 2012. Italian-born Carla Bruni (*1967) became famous as a model and a singer. At age 19, she dropped out of her studies in art and architecture. To the surprise of many, her album "Quelqu'un m'a dit" turned out to be a huge success in 2002. Six years later, she married then French President Nicolas Sarkozy. Isabelle Geffroy (*1980), better known as Zaz, once started out as a street musician to become a superstar on Montmartre reviving French chansons. She achieved international fame with her song "Je veux," which is a protest against the bourgeoisie. Geffroy internationalized the "Nouvelle Chanson" movement, which marked the comeback of chansons in the 1990s. Author: Sabine Oelze (ad) Armenian roots Shahnour Varinag Aznavourian was born in Paris on May 22, 1924, the son of Armenian refugees. His father was a singer and his mother an actress.  By 1970, Aznavour was known throughout Europe  A short man — 1.61 meters (5'3") — but one with a relentless will, he made it to the top in the European music world. The famed singer Edith Piaf helped him achieve his breakthrough and took him along on a tour of France and the US in 1946. From then on, his career hit peak after peak. "I don't know if I'm a good singer in the classical sense," Aznavour once said. "What's more important than the beauty of a voice is its expressiveness and how someone interprets a song, fills it with life. With my songs, I've always tried to tell personal, intimate stories." Nearly 100 albums Over the course of his 70-year career, Aznavour released nearly 100 albums with a vast range of duet partners including Placido Domingo, Elton John, Liza Minnelli, Frank Sinatra and Sting. He received countless prizes and honors, and was named Entertainer of the Century in the US in 1998. There was a time when he loved to show off his wealth, swimming in luxury and driving a Rolls Royce. His marriage to Ulla Ingegerd Thorssell from Sweden in 1967 was his third — and the one in which he said he found happiness. He played a kindly Jewish toy seller in Volker Schlöndorff's The Tin Drum Support for Armenia Aznavour used his fame to support his parents' home country — financially, politically and morally. His foundation, Aznavour for Armenia, collected millions for charity. Former French President Jacques Chirac named Aznavour an officer in the Legion of Honor for his political and social engagement. In December 2008, the singer was granted Armenian citizenship, and he has been the country's ambassador in Switzerland and to UNICEF since 2009. Yerevan, the country's capital, is home to a cultural center named after Aznavour.