Eduardo Vela, an 85-year-old former gynecologist, was found guilty by a court in Madrid on Monday of having taken Ines Madrigal, now 49, as a newborn baby from her biological mother and given to another woman. The incident allegedly took place in 1969 while he was working at the now-disused San Ramon Clinic in Madrid. Vela, whose trial opened three months ago, was found guilty of falsifying official documents, illegal adoption, unlawful detention and certifying a non-existent birth. Prosecutors had demanded he be jailed for 11 years. However, due to a statue of limitations, the court cleared the 85-year-old of the charges. Campaigners said a vast network of doctors, nurses, nuns and priests stole tens of thousands of babies up to 1987 — 12 years after Franco's death. Madrigal wants her case to help open "thousands of cases that are closed." The 49-year-old began to suspect she had been stolen from her birth mother after reading a 2010 article about the clinic's involvement in the practice. She now heads the Murcia branch of SOS Stolen Babies association and has lead the case against Vela. Previous cases have been shut down due to lack of evidence or the statute of limitations. Ines Madrigal talks to the press as she arrives to the Provincial Court in Madrid in June Baby stealing The newborn-stealing practice began after Franco came to power following Spain's 1936-39 civil war. Newborns were taken from left-wing opponents of the regime and later from poor families and given to affluent, conservative and Roman Catholic families. After Spain democratized after Franco's death in 1975, the practice went on as an illegal trafficking network up to at least 1987. Campaigners estimate tens of thousands of babies may have been taken in this way. Read more: Spaniards ask what happened to babies stolen under Franco Archives burnt Vela said during the trial that he could not remember details of how the clinic, which he ran for 20 years up to 1982, operated. A policeman who worked on the investigation and testified in court said Vela had burned its archives. Emilie Helmbacher, a French journalist, who testified by videoconference used a hidden camera to record Vela confessing to having given Madrigal away as a "gift" in June 1969. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. jbh (AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2nXz7