A lot of plastic lives a short life as packaging before ending up in landfills, incinerators or somewhere in the environment. But why doesn't more of it get recycled? It's largely a problem of economics. "The root of the problem is that plastic packaging today just doesn't have any value at the end of its single-use life," says Miranda Wang, the CEO of BioCellection, a California-based startup that wants to help solve the plastic pollution problem. According to Wang, no technology exists that can turn those plastics into something that "is valuable enough to justify the process of retrieving them and doing something with them." Read more: European Parliament votes for ban on single-use plastic This value problem is particularly bad when it comes to polyethylene (PE), which is used to make items like plastic bags, shrink wrap and other disposable packaging. According to a recent study, polyethylene accounts for about 36 percent of the 380 million tons of plastic produced annually worldwide. That's where BioCellection wants to step in. BioCellection co-founder and CEO Miranda Wang Molecular recycling Wang says today's recycling methods are largely mechanical and that's part of the reason why recycling plastic often doesn't make much economic sense. "Plastic is retrieved, sorted by color and by polymer type and density and then shredded and washed and melted together," said Wang. "But the problem is that plastic is not like metal, for example. The quality of mechanically recycled plastic is not as good as that of plastic made directly from oil." Read more: Here, there, and in the toilet? Microplastics now found in our poop So instead, Wang and her co-founder Jeanny Yao decided to tackle the problem on the molecular level. Instead of shredding plastic trash, BioCellection chemically converts it into raw materials that can be used to make new products. "A plastic like polyethylene is just a simple, long chain of carbons," Wang explained. "But the carbon bonds are very stable, so chemically it is very difficult to get them to start reacting. So we use a catalyst to destabilize this structure of the plastic and then we harvest those carbons." Wang described it as a kind of "molecular recycling." BioCellection wants to turn plastic trash (left) into chemicals (center), which can be turned into fibers and pellets (right) used to make new products Specifically, the company intends to turn the trash into succinic, adipic and azelaic acids, as well as dibasic esters. Chemicals that, according to BioCellection, have economic value. Read more: Plastic bottle recycling champion: Norway or Germany? "When we're at economic scale, we can actually create over $2,500 (€2,196) in value for every metric ton of plastic waste we process," Wang said. And the company will even get paid to take that plastic, because it is trash that waste processing facilities would otherwise have to pay to dispose of. Partnering up Part of the reason why recycling plastic is expensive is the cost of the energy and water required to clean the waste material. Wang and Yao addressed this by designing their system to handle even dirty plastic. And their lab prototype requires very little power — as much as a modern television. But BioCellection is moving beyond the lab phase and has partnered with waste disposal companies in the San Francisco Bay area, where the young company is based. "We want to work with companies that already run factories for sortation and we want to place our machines on-site to process the garbage as it is being sorted," said the Canadian. Read more: How the UK slowly turned against single-use plastics Relying on existing infrastructure this way will make it a lot easier to scale up, Wang says. By keeping the system small and placing it on the premises, BioCellection hopes to avoid having to secure land and having a partner already working in waste disposal means it will be easier to secure permits. Work on a pilot facility is already underway, says Wang. "We plan to have something to show the world in spring." The Yangtze is Asia's longest river and the third-longest river in the world. It also tops the list of river systems through which the most plastic waste flows into the oceans, according to a recent study. The Yangtze flows into the East China Sea near Shanghai and is crucial to China's economy and ecology. The river basin is home to 480 million people — one-third of the country's population. The Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research found 90 percent of plastic flowing into oceans can be traced to 10 rivers. The Indus ranks second on the list. One of Asia's largest rivers, it flows through parts of India and Pakistan into the Arabian Sea, supporting millions of people. While much plastic enters rivers because of a lack of waste infrastructure, sewage systems contribute too. Plastic can enter the food chain as fish and other marine and freshwater animals ingest it. The Yellow River, said to be the cradle of Chinese civilization, is third on the plastic-waste list but that's not the only environmental problem with which it contends. Pollution has rendered much of the river's water undrinkable. Around 30 percent of its fish species are believed to have disappeared too. Another of China's rivers, the Hai, comes in at number 4. It connects two of China's most populous metropolitan areas, Tianjin and Beijing, before flowing into one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, the Bohai Sea. The 10 river systems share traits, says the study. One is that they are located in densely populated areas with a lack of waste infrastructure and little awareness of recycling. Generally thought to be the world's longest river, the Nile flows through 11 countries before entering the Mediterranean Sea from Egypt. Some 360 million people live in the river basin where its waters support agriculture — the region's main economic activity. Irrigation and evaporation mean the river doesn't even reach the sea in dry periods. Still, it comes in at number five in the ranking. The Ganges is central to Indian spiritual life and provides water to more than half a billion people. Sewage, agricultural and industrial waste have made it one of the world's most polluted rivers, as have the multitudes of plastic that end up in it. Cleaning up the waste — as students are doing in this picture — is important, but experts say we must produce less and stop pollution at the source. Here, workers clear floating waste from China's notoriously dirty Pearl River, which enters the South China Sea between Hong Kong and Macau. Sewage and industrial waste flow into the river delta, keeping apace with the region's incredible rate of urban expansion. Since the late 1970s, the delta has transformed from a mainly agricultural and rural region to one of the world's largest urban areas. It's not until they hit urban and industrial areas that rivers feel the worst effects of pollution. Still, according to recent studies, plastic debris is even being found in remote and "pristine" locations. The Amur River rises in the hills of northeastern China and forms much of the border between China's Heilongjiang province and Russia's Siberia before it snakes out to the Sea of Okhotsk. The Niger is West Africa's main river, supporting over 100 million people and one of the planet's most lush ecosystems. It flows through five countries before entering the Atlantic Ocean from Nigeria. Plastic pollution aside, extensive dam construction is affecting water availability — and frequent oil spills in the Niger Delta have caused widespread water contamination. Dams are having major ecological and social impacts on the Mekong too. Around 20 million people live in the Mekong Delta. Many are dependent on fishing and agriculture for survival. The river flows through six countries in Southeast Asia, including Vietnam and Laos, and is tenth on the list of river systems that carry most of the 8 million tons of plastic that are dumped into the seas each year. Author: Jennifer Collins