Banksy posted a video on Wednesday indicating that the shredding of his "Balloon Girl" or "Girl With Balloon" picture — at the very moment it was auctioned — had gone wrong. Speculation about the artist's motives has been rife since the painting was partially shredded by a device inside the frame as the hammer went down, astonishing the audience at Sotheby's auction house in London. The winning bid had been for 1,042,000 pounds ($1.38 million, €1.19 million). The 2006 piece was subsequently renamed "Love is in the Bin" and was certified by Banksy's Pest Control company, which keeps his identity secret. Soon after the auction, Banksy had posted a video that showed how he secretly built a shredder into the large gilt frame surrounding the picture. 'In rehearsals, it worked every time' The latest footage published by Banksy shows a rehearsal of the stunt that ended with the artwork being completely sliced up. "In rehearsals it worked every time..." explained a caption in the new video, titled "Shredding the Girl and Balloon — The Director's Cut." Read more: Banksy's hotel with 'the world's worst view' opens in Bethlehem The Bristol-based artist is known best for ironic outdoor graffiti, often with a political theme. Banksy's stencil piece "Paparazzi Rat" is one of his most iconic works. Starting April 15, 2016, collector Dirk Kronsbein is showing 45 works from his Banksy collection, many of them originals, in his Munich gallery. Kronsbein has said he holds Banksy in high regard due to his social activism. Maria feeds Baby Jesus with a bottle that's adorned with a skull. Bomber jets are flying below them in this macabre picture. Dirk Kronsbein owns the original "Toxic Maria." Originals are hard to come by on the art market and can cost around 625,000 euros ($713,000). Banksy is not only critical of society, he also has a sense of humor. Here, he's depicted the Queen as a chimpanzee in royal regalia. Banksy donates the proceeds from his works to charity. He was once able to present a six-figure check to a youth sports club after the sale of one painting. Dirk Kronsbein also plans to support sport programs for children with his exhibition. Dirk Kronsbein only sells a Banksy work if he owns more than one copy of it - as in the case of "Choose Your Weapon." It's an homage to artist Keith Haring with his dog. Kronsbein also sells Banksy paraphernalia and donates the proceeds to boxing programs for troubled youth. Banksy often deals with armed violence and armament in his work. In "Heavy Weapon," he shows an elephant with a missile on its back. While graffiti in urban spaces is often illegal, on paper they're collector items. Even copies can cost as much as 100,000 euros. Not all of Banksy's works are political. He's also created poetic stencil paintings like "Girl Nola," whose umbrella is spilling red and yellow rain. Who is Banksy? He remains an enigma and fiercely guards the secret of his identity. All efforts to find out who he really is have been in vain. Owning a Banksy is a status symbol enjoyed by many celebrities. Actors Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, as well as model Kate Moss, all possess works by the mysterious street artist. Moss not only collects Banksy's works, but also became one: She had herself portrayed by him in the Pop Art style of Andy Warhol's iconic Marilyn Monroe painting. Coldplay singer Chris Martin purchased the original painting "Girl with Balloon" at an auction. Not only celebrities, but also other artists like Damien Hirst collect works by Banksy. Hirst was among the first to recognize the street artist's talent. Author: Gaby Reucher / kbm There was speculation about how Banksy had carried out the stunt, and whether it was shredded as a protest against the work being auctioned. Read more: 'The Art of Banksy': a commercial exhibition The auction house said the buyer, who was identified only as "a female European collector and a long-standing client," decided to continue with the purchase at the original price. And, far from losing value, many art experts said they believed it would fetch a higher price after the shredding than before. "Banksy didn't destroy an artwork in the auction, he created one," said Alex Branczik, Sotheby's Head of Contemporary Art, Europe. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2w8BX rc/sms (dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 