When comedy actress Chris Reuter decided to travel from Berlin to Hungary for a complex dental procedure, little did she realize that she was about to set a tiny economic engine in motion. At least one airline, one hotel and a few restaurants in Budapest, the spa centers she visited, her dentist at the Hungarian clinic, the German agency who had organized her trip – they all got their share of the cake. And let’s not forget the publisher of the goulash cookbook she’s taken home as souvenir. Medical tourism, which makes up about 5 percent of all domestic and international arrivals to the EU, is expected to grow exponentially, according to a study published by the European Parliament. Especially since 2014, following the European Directive on Cross-Border Healthcare, which allows EU citizens to receive medical care in any other member state. In the meantime, the revenues generated by health tourism at the EU level total about  €47 billion ($54.3 billion), which represents 0.33 percent of the overall GDP of the 28 European Union states. For Chris the decision was simple, although she had never been to Hungary before: way lower prices for her new smile, high medical standards, "greater respect for pain" as she says, doctors who speak fluent German. And all this in Budapest’s spectacular setting. Obviously, Chris’ German health insurance had nothing to object to, since her choice led to a good deal for them, too: "There were no problems at all with the health insurance. The clinic in Hungary sent the estimate of costs to Germany and I received the permit per fax on the same day. The costs were covered exactly as if I had done it in Germany," the actress told DW. Read more: Trains vs. planes – The real cost of travel European 'mecca' for dental treatments Hungary has long been an attractive destination for tourists seeking medical care and wellness treatments. But in recent years it has become the European hotspot for dentistry. At least for the Western and Northern Europeans, who generally have to pay about 50 to 80 percent more for a dental treatment at home. Chris Reuter’s treatment in Budapest has been arranged by "Zahnklinik Ungarn," a German agency based in Potsdam, which has already facilitated over 20,000 trips for dental treatments to Hungary, for German and Swiss patients. With 6,083 employed dentists in 2016, according to statista.com, the number of dental clinics is on the rise in Budapest, but also in other towns closer to the Austrian border. The small town of Mosonmagyarorvar, with a population of roughly 32,000 inhabitants, has managed to make taking care of teeth big business: the town has set a world record with the highest density of dental practices per capita: in 2014, over 150 practices and three big dental clinics were ready to receive patients. And the offer is perfectly customized: most of the personnel speak English and German: "I was very impressed by the clinic," Chris Reuter remembers. "The people are extremely nice and they all speak German. You’re being treated like a private patient." The Chain Bridge is the oldest of a total of nine bridges over the Danube. It was built in 1849. Just about very visitor to Budapest crosses it in order to get from the Pest half of the city to the hilly Buda side. In 2017, 12 million tourists stayed overnight in the Hungarian capital. The number has nearly doubled in the past ten years. From the Chain Bridge the way leads up to the Castle District with its huge castle and palace complex, Baroque bourgeois houses, museums, churches and narrow lanes. The Hungarian kings and nobility once lived here. Now tourists stroll through the nearly car-free district. The Fisherman's Bastion in the Castle District was built in neo-Gothic style in the late 19th century on the medieval marketplace where the Danube fishermen once sold their wares. This building has no function except to provide a panoramic view of the city. The statue of a horseman commemorates the first Hungarian king, István (Stephan), crowned in 1000 A.D., who Christianized the country. Next to the Fisherman's Bastion stands Matthias Church, 700 years old and named not for St. Matthew but for the Hungarian King Matthias. It was the scene of many coronation ceremonies. In 1867, for instance, the Austrian emperor Franz Josef and his wife Elisabeth were crowned king and queen of Hungary here. Sightseeing in Budapest is more easygoing than in other European cities, because here 15 thermal baths invite you to relax. The Széchenyi medicinal bath complex is the largest. Opened in 1913, it still exudes the elegance of that era. It has 18 pools, which are fed by different hot springs. The temperatures lie between 28 and 40 degrees Celsius. Here, too, the elegance of the late 19th and early 20th centuries lives on. This beautiful cafe was opened in 1894, in a building that had been commissioned by an insurance company. It has survived regime changes and wars, and its splendor is still impressive. Of course there are excellent shopping opportunities on Budapest's broad boulevards, but a visit to the Central Market Hall is a must. It's a meeting place for tourists and locals alike. You'll find anything and everything, from fruit and vegetables to meat and fish. On the first floor, souvenirs and arts and crafts are on sale – you can and should bargain vigorously. The biggest synagogue in Europe was built between 1854 and 1859 in Moorish style. It survived World War II severely damaged. Since 1996 the Great Synagogue has once again shone in all its former glory. It has room for about 3000 worshipers and can also be viewed by tourists except during Shabbat, from Friday evening to Saturday evening. The Tree of Life stands in the synagogue's inner courtyard. It commemorates the 564,000 Hungarian Holocaust victims. The leaves of the silver weeping willow are engraved with the names of those who saved the lives of other Jews during that time. The Jewish Quarter has now established itself as Budapest's hippest neighborhood. Behind dilapidated facades, you'll find countless bars, pubs, clubs and restaurants. The Szimpla Kert (pictured) opened in 2004. It was the first of the city's “ruin bars”, which are all the rage among both tourists and locals. Its dimensions are vast: 268 meters long, 96 meters tall, 27 portals, 29 stairways and almost 700 rooms. The Parliament building is one of the top sights that line the right and left banks of the Danube. UNESCO added this urban ensemble on both banks to its World Heritage list in 1987. Author: Anne Termèche (ms) Money isn’t everything The feeling of being treated like a private patient has also been drawing Iasmina Carstea, an economist from neighboring Romania, to the clinics in Szeged, a city in southeastern Hungary. "I’ll always choose to go to the doctors in Hungary," she told DW. "I’m scared of the high incidence of hospital-acquired infections in Romania. Besides, the Hungarian clinics have better technology and I’m highly impressed by the professionalism and friendliness of the staff – from doorman to director." So at the other end of the country’s map, the Hungarian medical system offers customer-tailored services for a different clientele: "At the clinics I’m going to, almost all patients are Romanians. Some of the staff has learned Romanian, but if they can’t explain something, they would just use Google Translate," Iasmina recalls. The living standards are higher in Hungary than in Romania, so unlike in the case of German or Austrian medical tourists, costs are not an incentive for the Romanian patients seeking treatment in the neighboring country. Read more: Budapest – New life in old ruins Bathing where the Romans did But every cent is well spent, says Lorena Garoiu, a Romanian painter who regularly goes to Budapest. She’s chosen a different type of healing: spa therapy. "The thermal waters at the Gellert Baths have been beneficial for my two slipped discs. I’ve felt an improvement from the very first time. Those waters really have healing properties," Lorena told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1G3Qq In fact, 60 percent of the tourists coming to Budapest choose the city for its wellness and spa offers, Szilvia Czinege, head of marketing at Budapest Spas told DW.  Not only is the country a hotspot for dental clinics, but in Budapest alone, there are over 100 natural springs, some of which have been in use since ancient Roman times. In 2017, the country welcomed 2.5 million medical and wellness tourists, according to the Hungarian Statistical Office (KSH). Plastic surgery, laser eye surgery and obstetrics are also popular among foreign health tourists coming to Hungary. The Berlin comedy actress decided to return to Budapest with her husband for a follow-up visit one year later. No dental drills this time, only architecture, spa and goulash: "The procedure has been a success. My doctor in Berlin is quite envious because he doesn’t have to repair anything," Chris told DW, with a bright smile on her face. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32lBJ