Individual errors Of the many qualities that have set Bayern apart over their six year title-winning sequence, consistency and concentration have been among the most important. But major individual errors have started to creep in. Manuel Neuer helped Augsburg to a late equalizer, Jerome Boateng gave away an entirely needless penalty against Hertha Berlin and Thiago's heavy touch on Saturday allowed Gladbach to double their lead. There were plenty more mistakes that went unpunished and Bayern's senior men are failing to set an adequate example. Aging squad While experience can be a strength, age can be a weakness. Bayern have the oldest squad in the Bundesliga and it's starting to show. Boateng, Hummels and Neuer suddenly don't appear the impenetrable trio they once were, Franck Ribery hasn't scored and has provided just a single assist this term and Arjen Robben has been removed early in each of the last three games. There has been a lethargy in patches of each of Bayern's recent performances and it's backed up by the fact they don't have a single entry in a list of the top 20 sprint-makers in the league. Niko Kovac won his first seven games at Bayern but things have turned Lack of cohesion With at least 74 minutes to pull back a two-goal deficit on Saturday, Bayern sides of recent vintage would've still fancied their chances. But as against Ajax and Hertha, the expected storm never arrived. Bayern were once again ponderous in their build up, with attacking players looking to each other to take the lead and defensive organization notable by its absence. Niko Kovac has yet to name the same team for consecutive league matches since joining and the wealth of options he has at Bayern seems currently to be more of a hinderance than a help. It's unclear exactly where he wants Thomas Müller and James Rodriguez to play and Thiago is not an ideal holding midfielder. Kovac now has a two week international break to ponder, though few of his players will be there to work with. Injuries Not all of Kovac's changes have been a question of choice. Serious early-season injuries to Kingsley Coman and Corentin Tolisso have robbed him of two of his more dynamic players, while Rafinha's ligament damage has exposed the lack of cover at fullback. Worse could be to come in that sense, after David Alaba - Bayern's only specialist left back after the sale of Juan Bernat to Paris Saint-Germain - was forced off clutching his hamstring on Saturday. That forced Joshua Kimmich to the other side, where his greatest asset - his crossing on the run - is likely to be negated.  Over-reliance on Lewandowski When Mario Götze turned in Borussia Dortmund's third goal against Augsburg earlier on Saturday, he became the 13th man to score for BVB in the league this season. For Bayern, that number is six. For some time, Bayern fans fretted about who came in when Robert Lewandowski was missing. The signing of Sandro Wagner eased those fears somewhat but, after three goalless games from the Polish striker, the question is now what happens when he's not firing. Bayern failed to really test Gladbach keeper Yann Sommer despite dominating possesssion and Kovac needs to find a way to get proven goalscorers like Robben, Müller and Ribery in to more threatening positions more often. Squad gone slightly stale Unlike most clubs operating in the same rarified atmosphere as the Bavarians, Bayern did little business in the summer transfer window, with free transfer Leon Goretzka the only first-team arrival. The club's top brass has made much of their reluctance to spend big on players but they are also struggling to bring through talent in the way that they once did. While sweeping up the best talent from the rest of the German clubs is a proven strategy, the fact that Thomas Müller and David Alaba were the last two youth products to make a substantial impact is troubling for a club that prides itself on such things. It took Weston McKennie 33 games to open his Schalke account, now he can't stop hitting the net. The American youngster opened the scoring in this one after scoring the winner against Lokomotiv Moscow in midweek. Guido Burgstaller made it safe for Schalke, who have now won three in a row without conceding. But McKennie wasn't the only American having fun on Saturday. Bobby Wood (left) was handed his first start since moving to Hannover and rewarded his coach Andre Breitenreiter with quickfire headed double before halftime. Mario Gomez pulled one back for Stuttgart after the break but Ihlas Bebou made it safe late on as the hosts held on for their first league win of the season. Paco Alcacer's stunning injury time freekick completed his hat-trick and won his team a pulsating game at Signal Iduna Park. Dortmund twice trailed their visitors before Alcacer and Mario Götze (in his first league appearance of the season) put them ahead for the first time. When Roman Bürki spilt Michael Gregoritsch's header in to the net on 87 minutes, it looked all over. Not quite. If before it was a blip, it's now most certainly a crisis by Bayern Munich's lofty standards. An excellent 9th minute strike from French forward Alassane Plea gave the visitors the lead before Thiago's error allowed Lars Stindl to score on his return from a severe ankle injury. The comeback many expected never came and Patrick Herrmann completed the rout late on. A game low on quality, chances and - from the looks of it - spectators saw these sides share the points. Even Ondrej Duda, the Bundesliga's top scorer before this weekend couldn't summon up anything to steal the points. The result keeps Hertha in the Champions League spots and Mainz safely in midtable. Davy Klaassen showed how quickly he is settling in at his new club by delivering a game-winning performance in a gritty match. The Dutchman's goal on the volley in the box 10 minutes before the break gave Werder confidence in a game where Wolfsburg had passages of pressure. Forty-year-old Claudio Pizarro came off the bench to set up fellow sub Johannes Eggestein for the second late on. After a perfect start, suddenly Bayern Munich look shaky. The question will be whether Niko Kovac can steady the ship, especially after the surprise defeat against Hertha Berlin last time out in the league. Gladbach have a great record against Bayern and will be keen to make sure they are not the opponent that Bayern start their comeback against. Author: Jonathan Harding