Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman promised on Wednesday to work with Turkey to bring those responsible for the murder of Saudi dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi to "justice." "Those behind this crime will be held accountable," he said during a speech to business leaders at the Future Investment Initiative forum in Riyadh. Khashoggi's death, he added, was a "heinous crime." Prevarication, Saudi style He said Riyadh's adversaries have been exploiting the incident to "drive a wedge between Saudi Arabia and Turkey." The journalist, who had repeatedly criticized the crown prince before his death, went missing at the beginning of October after entering the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Turkey accused the Saudi government of murdering and dismembering Khashoggi in the consulate. Riyadh said the journalist had died during a fight, after initially claiming he had left the consulate building alive. October 2: Prominent journalist Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he had gone to obtain an official document for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. He never emerged from the consulate, prompting Cengiz, who waited outside, to raise the alarm. October 3: Turkish and Saudi officials came up with conflicting reports on Khashoggi's whereabouts. Riyadh said the journalist had left the mission shortly after his work was done. But Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said the journalist was still in the consulate. October 6: Turkish officials said they believed the journalist was likely killed inside the Saudi consulate. The Washington Post, for which Khashoggi wrote, cited unnamed sources to report that Turkish investigators believe a 15-member team "came from Saudi Arabia" to kill the man. October 8: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on Saudi Arabia to prove that Khashoggi left its consulate in Istanbul. Turkey also sought permission to search the mission premises. US President Donald Trump voiced concern on the journalist's disappearance. October 9: Saudi Arabia agreed to let Turkish officials search its consulate. Security camera footage released by local media showed a van entering the consulate on October 2, before going to the nearby consul's residence, further fanning conspiracy theories. October 12: British billionaire Richard Branson halted talks over a $1 billion Saudi investment in his Virgin group's space ventures, citing Khashoggi's case. He also pulled out of an investment conference in Riyadh dubbed the "Davos in the Desert." His move was followed by Uber's Dara Khosrowshahi, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon and a host of other business leaders. October 15: Turkish investigators searched the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The search lasted more than eight hours and investigators removed samples from the building, including soil from the consulate garden and a metal door, one official said. October 19: Saudi Arabia said preliminary investigations showed that Khashoggi died after an "altercation" and "fistfight" at the consulate. Turkey's ruling party has responded, saying Ankara will "never allow a cover-up" of the killing of the Saudi journalist. German Chancellor slammed Riyadh's explanation as "insufficient." October 21: Saudi Arabia admitted the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a "rogue operation," calling it a "huge and grave mistake," but insisted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had not been aware of the murder. Riyadh said it had no idea where Khashoggi's body was. October 21: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany would put arms exports to Saudi Arabia on hold for the time being, given the unexplained circumstances of Khashoggi's death. Germany is the fourth largest exporter of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the United States, Britain and France. Author: Ashutosh Pandey Trump suggests bin Salman responsibility The incident sparked an international outcry and led many business leaders to pull out of the Future Investment Initiative, colloquially dubbed "Davos in the desert." US President Donald Trump has suggested bin Salman was responsible for Khashoggi's death in comments made to the Wall Street Journal. "The prince is running things over there more so at this stage," he said. "He's running things and so if anybody were going to be, it would be him." German Chancellor Angela Merkel has dismissed the Saudi government's explanation for the murder as "insufficient" and temporarily halted arms sales to the kingdom. Alexander Stubb, a former prime minister of Finland and a prospective candidate for the presidency of the European Commission, told DW that "action must be taken" if Saudi authorities were found to be responsible for the killing. Turkey for justice Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and bin Salman discussed how to investigate the murder during a telephone conversation on Wednesday, a source close to Erdogan told the AFP news agency. The Turkish president directly accused Saudi Arabia of a "planned" murder in a speech to the Turkish parliament on Tuesday. "We are determined not to allow any cover up of this murder and for all those responsible — from those who gave the command to those who executed it — not to escape justice," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/377Ic amp/msh (AFP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.