Two major sponsors, Nike and EA Sports, have expressed concern about the conduct of Cristiano Ronaldo as their star client faces accusations of rape. "We are deeply concerned by the disturbing allegations and will continue to closely monitor the situation," Nike said in a statement on Thursday. Ronaldo, one of the world's most famous football players, has a contract to advertise Nike and wear their gear on the field. His latest deal with the sports company, struck in 2016, was reportedly worth $1 billion (€868 million). The athlete is also the face of FIFA video games, produced by EA Sports. Ronaldo's image and likeness are featured in the top-selling series. The US-based company has also pledged to monitor the situation, adding that it expected its athletes "conduct themselves in a manner that is consistent with EA's values." The 33-year-old Ronaldo has strongly denied claims that he sexually assaulted an American woman in 2009. 'Great champion' His football club, Juventus, broke its silence on Thursday and strongly backed the Portuguese-born athlete. "Cristiano Ronaldo has shown in recent months his great professionalism and dedication, which is appreciated by everyone at Juventus," the club said on Twitter. "The events allegedly dating back to almost 10 years ago do not change this opinion, which is shared by anyone who has come into contact with this great champion," they added. Ronaldo transferred from Real Madrid to Juventus earlier this year in a €100-million deal. Italy's top team also posted a video of Ronaldo scoring goals during practice, ahead of a Saturday game against Udinese. At the same time, however, Ronaldo has been sidelined from the Portuguese national team for at least four international games. National coach Fernando Santos announced the decision on Thursday after a conversation with Ronaldo and Portuguese Football Federation head Fernando Gomes. Santos said Ronaldo "won't be an option for selection," but refused to provide details about the discussion. Later, Santos suggested the player's absence would be temporary. "In the future, nothing prevents Cristiano from giving his contribution to the national team," he said. In the 2017-18 season, Jürgen Klopp desperately needed a defender. Liverpool found a way to supply him with one, spending a reported 75 million pounds (€84.2 million, $101.3 million) on Virgil van Dijk in January, making the Dutchman the most expensive defender of all time. After Lukaku scoring 26 goals for Everton in the 2016-17 season, Manchester United shelled out a reported 75 million pounds (€84.8 million, $96.8 million) for the Belgian striker. He rewarded the Red Devils for their investment right away, scoring seven goals in his first seven Premier League games. Scoring 36 goals in 35 league appearances, Gonzalo Higuain had a memorable 2015-2016 season at Napoli. Italy's record champions Juventus were eager to sign the Argentinian striker, paying €90 million ($99 million) for his services. After two seasons in Turin, he moved to AC Milan on loan, a deal which could become permanent in 2019. Welsh superstar Gareth Bale became the world's most expensive player in 2013 after he transferred to Real Madrid for a fee of €100 million (then $132 million) after a six-year stint at Tottenham Hotspur. His move remains the most costly signing ever finalized by the Spanish club. Three years after Bale's mega-move, Paul Pogba dethroned the Welshman as the world's most expensive player when he moved from Juventus to Manchester United for €105 million ($116.6 million). Pogba had come through the Red Devils' youth setup before leaving on a free transfer. Dembele was one of Dortmund's most exciting and promising players, so much so that only after a year of playing in Germany, Barcelona came knocking for his services. The French forward transferred to Barca for €105 million ($123.9 million) with up to €42 million in bonus payments. The deal is the most expensive sale by a German club in football history. Portugal's most capped player could appear on this list twice. His €94 million (then $132.5 million) move to Real Madrid shattered the world transfer record. After four Ballon d'Or, four Champions League and two La Liga titles with the Galacticos, he completed a €117 million ($136.9 million) move to Juventus in July. Want to talk about profit? Liverpool purchased Philippe Coutinho from Inter Milan in January 2013 for €13 million ($17.3 million at the time). Five years later, the English club sold the Brazilian playmaker for a reported €120 million ($145.2 million) fee, which could increase to €160 million with bonuses. A pretty good turnover, right? Before he was a World Cup winner with France, Mbappe was a highly coveted teenage talent. After a bursting onto the season with Monaco in 2016-17, the French forward moved to Paris Saint-Germain for a total package worth €180 million (€214 million) — a €45 million loan for 2017-18 followed by a €135 million transfer. Who could afford to buy a player for €222 million ($262 million)? Qatari-owned French giants Paris Saint-Germain are one of the very few clubs in the globe capable of it. In the summer of 2017, Brazilian star Neymar received an offer he could just not refuse from PSG. The Brazilian left Lionel Messi's shadow in Barcelona for the French capital, becoming the world's most expensive footballer. dj/cmk (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.