Pompeo arrived in Tokyo on Saturday on the first leg of his three-day tour of East Asia, which will also take him to Pyongyang and Seoul. The US secretary of state was holding talks with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Japanese counterpart, Taro Kono, to discuss the Abe administration's North Korea policy before heading to Pyongyang on Sunday. Last month, Abe hinted that he was prepared to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "to break the shell of mutual distrust." The Japanese government wants Washington to safeguard its regional interests in North Korea peace negotiations. North Korea's abduction of Japanese citizens is an emotional issue for many in Japan. Scores of people were kidnapped from Japan and used to train North Korea's spies in Japanese culture and language. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34fcD A tough test But Pompeo will face his real diplomatic test in Pyongyang, which many analysts say is only buying time on its controversial nuclear program. There has been little progress on the nuclear issue since US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un held talks in Singapore in June. Read more: Donald Trump cancels Mike Pompeo's North Korea trip, citing lack of progress Since the Kim-Trump summit, the North Korean regime has suspended nuclear and ballistic missile tests, freed three American prisoners and dismantled parts of tunnel entrances at a nuclear site. The US says it will not remove sanctions against North Korea until a complete denuclearization of the peninsula. North Korea's foreign minister said last week that Pyongyang will not disarm without first receiving concessions from Washington. Speaking to the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Ri Yong Ho said North Korea had taken "significant goodwill measures" in the past year but had not seen "any corresponding response" from the United States. Speaking to reporters on his plane on Friday, Pompeo said his mission was to "make sure that we understand what each side is truly trying to achieve … and how we can deliver against the commitments that we made" in Singapore. Pompeo said Friday that he would at least try to develop options, the location and timing of a second meeting between Trump and Kim. "I'm not sure of we are going to get a whole lot of progress other than details of the next Trump-Kim meeting," said Sue Mi Terry, a former CIA analyst on Korea and now a senior fellow at Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "I think the North Koreans will try and save the actual negotiations for when Kim meets with Trump." North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump shake hands as they meet for the first time. Unlike in past meetings with some world leaders, Trump did not try to pull Kim's hand towards him or hold on to the North Korean leader's hand too long. Trump and Kim appeared at ease with one another during the summit. Just a few months prior, Trump and Kim engaged in a war of words, trading insults like "little rocket man" and "mentally deranged." Following their meeting, Trump said he formed a "special bond" with Kim and that he'd like to invite him to the White House. Kim lays a hand on Trump's back as they leave after signing a joint statement pledging peace negotiations and denuclearization. Some critics worried that the US agreed to give up too many things in negotiations with Kim. At a press conference, Trump said he wanted to stop US military exercises with South Korea and eventually withdraw US troops — something Pyongyang has been demanding for years. Trump displays the joint agreement he signed with Kim. In the four-point document, Kim agreed to the "complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." In exchange, Trump agreed to provide "security guarantees" to Pyongyang. The two leaders also agreed to build a "robust peace regime" and to return the remains of prisoners of the 1950-1953 Korean War. South Koreans watch the summit on a screen located at a train station in Seoul. Ahead of the event, critics expressed concern that the meeting between the two leaders would be purely symbolic and not bring concrete progress to easing tensions. Indeed, the agreement did not specify what exact measures would be taken. A bartender in Singapore crafted a special drink for the summit, dubbed "The Bromance." The meeting was held on Singapore's Sentosa island, a resort area with luxury hotels and a theme park. The island's security was massively increased ahead of the summit, while local businesses marked the occasion with special Trump-Kim branded water and drinks. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with dpa, AFP) shs/ng (AP, AFP)