A caravan of at least 3,000 Central American migrants resumed its march Sunday from the Mexican border town of Ciudad Hidalgo towards the United States border. The migrants in question, most of whom are from Honduras, clogged the main highway heading north after successfully crossing the Guatemalan frontier into Mexico. A small number entered through the official border crossing on a bridge spanning the Suchiate River. Many also entered illegally, circumventing immigration authorities by swimming or paddling across on makeshift rafts. US President Donald Trump has condemned the caravan, threatening to close the US-Mexico border if it doesn't turn back. "Full efforts are being made to stop the onslaught of illegal aliens from crossing our Souther(n) Border," Trump tweeted. "People have to apply for asylum in Mexico first, and if they fail to do that, the US will turn them away."  Several hundred Mexican police in riot gear manned the highway as the caravan progressed towards the city of Tapachula. "We don't yet know if we will make it to the (US) border, but we are going to keep going as far as we can," Rodrigo Abeja, one of the caravan's leaders, told The Associated Press. To get there, he will have to travel at least 3,000 kilometers (1,800 miles). Read more: Hondurans fleeing poverty, violence Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36tx7 Mexico allows women, children to register as migrants On Saturday, Mexico only allowed about 640 migrants through the official Suchiate River border crossing, and warned that those entering illegally would face deportation. The slow pace of processing meant that about a thousand migrants were still trapped on the bridge. Mexican authorities have insisted that they will have to file asylum claims one-by-one to gain access to the country. It remains unclear whether their applications are likely to be accepted. Meanwhile, the Guatemalan government has organized a fleet of buses to take the migrants back to their native Honduras. Initial estimates suggest over 300 people have already taken up the offer. Read more: Bound for US, migrants gamble with their lives on the 'death train' Trump: Migrant caravan politically motivated Trump has sought to make the caravan and US border security a central issue ahead of midterm elections in just over two weeks' time. During a rally in Elko, Nevada, on Saturday, the president said: "The Democrats want caravans, they like the caravans. A lot of people say 'I wonder who started that caravan?'" Read more: US opens new housing at Mexico border for migrant children, amid outcry In a migrant shelter in the southern Mexican city of Tenosique, near the Guatemalan border, a refugee from Honduras says he originally planned to move to the United States with his family. Trump's election has changed everything. "I wanted to go to the United States with my family, but we've seen that the new government there has made things harder." Concepcion Bautista from Guatemala cradles her newborn son in the same migrant shelter. She says she plans to head for the United States, but will linger in Mexico to see how US President Donald Trump's immigration policies play out. Her goal is to reunite with her family up north ..... …but for the time being, she believes applying for asylum in Mexico is a smarter move. Mexican asylum data and testimony from migrants in Tenosique suggest that although fewer Central Americans are trying to enter the US, plenty are still fleeing their poor, violent home countries, with many deciding to stay longer in Mexico, which has traditionally been a transit country. The Trump administration has pointed out a sharp decline in immigrant detentions in the first few months of this year as a vindication for the president's tough immigration policies. The measures are already having another effect. In California, where farmers usually rely on workers from Mexico to bring in the harvest, many Mexicans are staying away, preferring to find work in their own country. Migrants from Central America play football in the migrant shelter in Tenosique. The number of people applying for asylum in Mexico has soared by more than 150 percent since Trump was elected president. These days, Mexican immigrants would rather set up in Canada than the United States. One man from Guatemala says the prices charged by people smugglers have risen sharply since Trump took office, now hovering around $10,000 (9,100 euros), up from about $6,000 a few years ago. Migrants sit below a mural in Mexico with the words: "Our demand is minimal: justice." With Mexico's immigration authorities controlling migration more assiduously, Central Americans were forced to take more isolated, dangerous routes where the chances of being mugged were higher. "We've gone north several times, but every time it's got harder," says one man, who was deported from the United States in December. "Now, it's better if we travel alone, along new routes." Author: Nadine Berghausen Trump went on to praise Mexican authorities for trying to halt the caravan's progress. "Mexico has been so incredible. Thank you Mexico and the leaders of Mexico, thank you," he said. "And you know why, because now Mexico respects the leadership of the United States." The president has threatened to cut aid to the region, deploy the military and shut down the US-Mexico border if authorities did not stop the migrants. The caravan began in San Pedro Sula in northern Honduras last week, and grew in size as it traveled through Guatemala towards Mexico. Honduras has seen violent street gangs brutally rule over large swathes of turf for years. With a homicide rate of nearly 43 citizens per 100,000, the country ranks among the poorest and most violent in the Americas. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm,nm/cmk (AP, AFP)