An unplanned visit to the White House on Monday provided an opportunity for German Health Minister Jens Spahn to discuss biological weapons, terrorism and epidemics with John Bolton, the National Security Advisor. "We were in agreement that we have to do more work in these areas so that we can react quicker in crisis situations," Spahn said afterwards. "Bioterrorism is the poor man's atomic bomb," he said. "With only a little work, you can do something terrible. That's why we have to work closely with our American colleagues in this arena." He added that Germany could learn from the US on bioterrorism. In June, a man was arrested in Cologne suspected of planning an attack with Ricin, a highly potent toxin. Spahn has excellent contacts in the US and is very friendly with Washington's ambassador in Berlin, Richard Grenell. "We have a difference of opinion on some topics," Spahn said. "But transatlantic relations are larger than the question of what is being tweeted," he said in reference to US President Donald Trump. The occasional critic of Chancellor Angela Merkel is making a two-day visit to the US, his first international trip as Health Minister outside of Europe. Reputedly Merkel's choice as her future successor but lesser known across Germany, Kramp-Karrenbauer headed a CDU-SPD coalition as state premier in Saarland before becoming the CDU's general secretary. Economic development that "leaves no one behind" is one of Kramp-Karrenbauer's policy planks. She also backed Merkel's tolerance toward asylum-seekers. Hesse's former interior minister, and since 2010 its state premier, has twice "won" Big Brother awards from German data privacy advocates for propagating closer surveillance methods by police. The sports fan, 66, currently heads a CDU-Greens coalition government in Wiesbaden and is one of five deputy chairpersons in the executive of Merkel's CDU. With a political carreer that has spanned decades, Schäuble is one of the CDU's most experienced members. The 75-year-old former lawyer previously served as interior minister and finance minister under Merkel before becoming president of the German parliament in 2017. Schäuble has managed to walk a fine line of remaining loyal to the chancellor while also criticizing Germany's refugee policies. At 38, the youngest and overtly determined Merkel usurper, Jens Spahn became an MP in 2002 and later Germany's health minister. "Young, gay and conservative," concluded Stern magazine. The hobby DJ duped Merkel by leading the passage of a resolution at a CDU conference in 2016 to quash limited-category dual citizenship for young foreigners. He's faced critique for remarks on poverty in Germany. Germany's first female defense minister began her career in medicine, studying public health at Stanford University in the United States. Outspoken on family issues, von der Leyen sought gains for soldiers' families and during probes against far-right army suspects her "false esprit de corps" accusation upset some personnel. She also advocates closer EU defense links. The former "Wine Queen" from Rhineland-Palatinate is Merkel's agriculture minister and formerly studied political science and theology. Her stance tends to be conservative: opposing abortion, embryonic stem cell research and proposing an alternative plan to Merkel's refugee policy. Germany's interior minister, 68, sparked a political crisis by threatening to take a lone wolf approach to immigration policy. The head of the CSU wants to lure back voters from the far-right in Bavaria's state election in October. The rest of Germany is unlikely to want him as chancellor but his unrelenting objection to Merkel's policies, slated as too liberal, has calmed down conservatives. Bavaria's state premier Markus Söder has also sparred with the chancellor over migration policy. He's introduced a row of controversial policies in the southern German state, including a plan to more quickly deport rejected asylum-seekers and ordering crosses placed on public buildings. He's also under pressure to win back support from populists in Bavaria's state election in October. The economy minster's espousal of Merkel's progressive policy mix grates with arch conservatives, for example, during Germany's 2015 refugee crisis. Originally from Saarland, Altmaier first worked for the EU. The former environment minister, now 60, is renowned for his kitchen diplomacy. "Merkel's bodyguard" is a stickler for policy detail and is not averse to "green" ideas. Avowed European, liberal, but branded by his critics as too nice for politics: Laschet last year became CDU state premier of North Rhine-Westphalia. His win marked a major defeat for Social Democrats in Germany's 18 million-strong "coal" state. The Catholic and former journalist, 57, is also one of five deputies in Merkel's CDU executive — like Bouffier, Klöckner and von der Leyen. Author: Ian P. Johnson jm/rt (dpa, Handelsblatt) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.