Around the world, awareness of the grave danger plastic waste poses to our planet is growing. Some authorities have already taken steps to cut down on single-use plastics. Among those is the European Union, which in May 2018 proposed new rules that would ban or restrict the use of 10 such items. Although, the EU's proposals are certainly a step in the right direction, they could also be a tougher – and expanded to include other single-use plastics. So eco@africa has chosen five products deemed to be among the most unnecessary and most easily replaceable with sustainable alternatives – and which, if they're not already on the EU's potential ban list, certainly should be. When released into the air, balloons can travel huge distances, and end up in the stomachs of marine creatures Releasing balloons en masse They may come with happy associations of celebrations, but balloons have a terrible impact on the environment. When they end up in the ecosystem, animals mistake the balloons for food, and because it fills up their stomachs, the creatures then starve to death. Balloons are typically made of latex. Still, despite its natural origin, this doesn't degrade quickly enough to avoid becoming what an animal sees as its next meal. Some balloons are made of plastic. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36Qq6 Bursting balloons and throwing them in the bin afterwards helps minimize this. The bigger problem is when balloons are released into the air, often en masse. They can travel huge distances and often end up in our oceans. According to a 2015 paper in journal Marine Policy, experts ranked balloons as one of the biggest threats to marine mammals and sea birds. In the USA, five states have so far banned mass balloon releases. While, the EU includes balloon sticks on their list of proposed plastics to ban, the balloon itself doesn't make the cut. Instead, a labeling requirement has been suggested for balloons that would indicate how they should be disposed of, explain their negative environmental impact and outline the presence of plastics in the product. Lightweight straws can slip out of the recycling process — and into the environment Plastic straws These are arguably one of the best examples of unnecessary single-use plastics. Apart from people with certain disabilities, people the world over can easily drink without a straw. Public pressure over the needless waste generated by plastic straws has reached such a level that companies themselves, including Starbucks, have started phasing them out. Straws are most commonly made from polypropylene. Although, that can be recycled, straws are so small that they fall off the conveyor belts at recycling plants, and end up being sent to landfills. A study published in journal Science in 2015 found there are nearly 7.5 million plastic straws lying on America's shores alone, where they can harm ocean wildlife. The European Commission has proposed a ban on plastic straws is pushing for it to be approved by the European Parliament and Council by May 2019. And for anyone still intent on using straws, bamboo offers a more sustainable alternative. These can be cleaned and re-used and are biodegradable. Public opinion is turning against unnecessary plastic packaging Plastic packaging Public awareness of the problems with plastic packaging is growing with regard to everything from throw-away coffee cups to unnecessary wrapping on perishable and non-perishable goods. As with plastic straws, some companies have bowed to public pressure and are bringing in measures themselves. This includes a number of major supermarkets in the United Kingdowm pledging to eradicate unnecessary single-use plastics by 2025. Read more: How the UK slowly turned against single-use plastics Under the 'UK Plastics Pact,' single-use plastics will only be allowed if they are considered vital and made from recyclable materials — meaning items like the plastic trays often used in ready meals would be phased out. Alternative packaging materials are also being developed. Mycofoam, a compostable alternative to polystyrene derived from fungi, is one example. But rather than calling for an outright ban on single-use plastic packaging, the EU's proposal includes expecting member states to reduce use of food containers and cups by ensuring they can't be provided free of charge. Cotton swabs easily end up in the ecosystem but an EU-wide ban is on the cards Cotton swabs The light plastic handles of cotton swabs find their way into the environment, traveling through sewage systems and ending up in the stomachs of marine life. But that can be easily avoided by opting for cotton buds with paper stems. Cotton swab sticks have been earmarked by the EU for a ban, meaning their days could be numbered. Read more: How hard is living without plastic? There are other personal hygiene products, such as toothbrushes, which could be phased out in favor of more sustainable alternatives. Bamboo toothbrushes are available, for instance. But in other elements of hygiene, extending into the medical realm, single-use plastics do have legitimate applications — think plastic disposable gloves and syringes. Although, glass is seen by some as an alternative for the latter, this brings with it a host of challenges such as ensuring sterilization in places where resources for carrying it out are already limited. For marine creatures, plastic bags resemble jellyfish. These animals end up starving after filling up on the bags Plastic bags Moves to ban, or at least force companies to start charging for single-use plastic bags are spreading. Kenya, for instance, has imposed the world's most drastic bag ban, and imposes hefty fines or jail time for anyone producing, selling or carrying a plastic bag. Elsewhere, however, such bans have not gone so well, with major retailer Coles in Australia backtracking on making its customers pay for plastic bags after some people started attacking staff. Plastic bags harm the environment in several ways. For instance, marine animals may mistake them for jellyfish when they are in the water and eat them, clogging up their intestines in the process. Read more: Britain's marine crime scene investigators Creatures can get tangled up in the bags, and the bags can also cause flooding by blocking storm drains. But the EU doesn't have a bag ban in its sights. Instead it's urging producers to raise awareness about them. Billions of plastic straws end up as waste. The European Union wants to ban these and other single-use plastics, which end up in rubbish dumps or in our oceans. But for those who just can't stop sucking — like Marco Hort, who set a world record with 259 straws stuffed in his mouth — there are environmentally friendly alternatives. Animals in the ocean often try to eat plastic straws. To protect the environment, you can now eat the straw yourself. The German startup Wisefood has developed an edible straw made out of the leftovers from Germany's apple juice production. Alternatively, you can also acquire a multiple-use straw made from metal, bamboo or glass. There are no exact numbers of how many plastic forks, knives and spoons are used once and then dumped. But it's enough for the EU to want to say goodbye to them. If you need to eat on the run and can't use metal silverware, you might try edible versions. The Indian startup Bakey's offers forks made out of sorghum; the US company SpudWares, out of potato starch. Yummy! Talking about eating your plastic alternatives: You might also like to try edible plates, since plastic plates will be on the way out under the EU's ban. The Polish company Biotrem has developed plates made from bran. In case you are already full from your meal, don't worry: The plates are organic and decompose after 30 days. Besides banning the private use of disposable plastic products, the EU aims to encourage fast food chains, cafes and bars to curb the use of plastic cups. Half a trillion plastic cups are consumed every year — most of them being used for a single drink, then staying in the environment for eternity. Several companies now offer plant-based alternatives. One of those companies is the Balinese startup Avani. It has developed a compostable bioplastic made from corn starch. Although, the cups look and feel like petroleum-based plastic cups, they are biodegradable. However, they decompose best in a commercial composting facility, and not in your backyard The easiest way to replace plastic cups is by using reusable mugs. But we might not always have our personal coffee cups on hand while we are out on the streets. Berlin is among German cities testing out a pilot project allowing coffee aficionados to borrow a reusable bamboo mug for a small deposit, and return it at another cafe at a later point. Another plastic product the EU would see gone are ear buds. When disposed of improperly, they end up in the ocean, where animals mistake them for food. There are plastic-free alternatives with the stem made from bamboo or paper. But hardcore environmentalists say it's best to stop using them altogether — you can use your towel to clean your ears. Author: Katharina Wecker 