Does RWE need to fell the forest now to keep mining? No. The edge of the Hambach open-pit mine is over 300 meters (985 feet) from the forest — most of it over 400 meters away. In recent years, the diggers tearing up the earth for lignite — or brown coal — have been advancing towards the forest at pace of 120 meters per year. If they keep going at that rate, there should be enough coal for them to keep mining for at least another three years. Experts have also said that the mine could be operated so as to spare the forest for another six years, while feeding the power plants it supplies with the same amount of coal they currently consume. However, coal demand is set to fall. By 2019, three of the older power station units supplied by the Hambach mine are to be transferred into an emergency reserve that will only be used when the country is short of power. Read more: The battle for villages and forests in Germany's coal country Is clearing the forest now legal? The Hambach open-pit mine: Still some way from the ancient forest The Higher Administrative Court in Münster is currently examining whether the Hambach Forest is protect by EU directives, and therefore cannot be cleared. To avoid RWE preempting this process, Friends of the Earth Germany (BUND) successfully applied for the forest clearance to be temporarily suspended. Read more: Is the destruction of Hambach Forest legal? On Friday, the court ruled that RWE must hold off until it has decided whether the clearance is legal, a process expected to take months. Under the terms of RWE's operation of the mine, the company is required to preserve the forest as long as possible and clearing trees is only allowed when it is deemed essential to mining operations. Clearing forest two years in advance of the diggers moving in is seen as necessary, and therefore legal. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35LaA But at their current speed and distance, they shouldn't encroach on the forest for at least another three, and the area RWE wants to clear extends a full kilometer from the current edge of the mine. RWE failed to meet DW's request for information demonstrating why the current forest clearance plans were legal or necessary. This is likely to be a topic for the court. But the felling of the forest now looks unlikely before October next year.  Will the mine collapse if the forest stays? RWE chief executive Rolf Martin Schmitz has also said the forest has to be felled because the company needs the soil underneath it to stabilize the perimeter of the mine. A mining engineer working in the lignite sector, who asked not to be named, told DW these embankments could be stabilized from within the pit, meaning extending them to the fringes of the forest was unnecessary. RWE already uses these methods in other parts of the mine, as revealed in satellite images. The engineer told DW that because the pit near the forest's edge was shallow, this type of reinforcement would not be particularly costly. Can Germany burn the Hambach coal and cut emissions? Climate scientists say we must act fast to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) — or preferably 1.5. For this reason, the German Council of Economic Experts is calling for a rapid coal exit. They have calculated how much carbon dioxide (CO2) Germany can emit over the coming decades to keep within the target. In a business-as-usual scenario, Germany's carbon budget for coal-fired power will be exhausted by the end of 2023, after which keeping coal-fired power plants running would mean Germany emitting more than its fair share of CO2. Scientists at the Fraunhofer Institute have proposed a path to giving up coal that would see the last power stations switched off in 2030, Germany keeping within its carbon budget — and the Hambach forest spared. RWE, however, rejects the economic experts' recommendation and wants to release significantly more CO2 into the atmosphere. RWE's strategy is based on a policy that would lead to global warming of more than 3 degrees. Who is responsible for the escalating situation in Hambach? RWE is committed to its deforestation plan, and has support from the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia. Activists insist their protest has been peaceful Activists demanding an end to coal extraction to protect the climate have been camped out in the ancient woodland for the last six years, and have broad backing from the wider environmental movement. They have now been cleared from treehouses with help from the police. Some have been arrested. The scene in the forest has been largely peaceful. Still, some police have used pepper spray against the protestors — even as others have proceeded peacefully, and are even sympathetic to the activists' environmental concerns. And on the other side, one eviction saw police pelted with human waste from the tree-top camp. Police have also accused activists of attacking them with catapults and stones, but there have been no arrests for these attacks, so it is not clear who was responsible. There have also been attacks on the protestors. Two of their vehicles have been set on fire. Police and state prosecutors are investigating the arson. At the heart of Europe, in western Germany, near the border to France and Belgium, a scrap of ancient forest holds thousand-year-old trees along with abundant wildlife. But there's another species living there in the forest as well — our own. About 150 people currently live in what's left of Hambach forest, many in makeshift tree houses. Although living in a tree house may appear idyllic, many of the environmental activists have uprooted their lives for the better part of six years — living without electricity and running water — to protect the forest, and take a stance against the power of the fossil fuel industry. Several hundred police officers accompanied RWE workers for protection as they visited the forest on Wednesday, September 5, to expel the protesters in preparation for clearing. Although the operation was mostly peaceful, one activist was arrested after resisting police. Activists joke about their "dangerous weapons," such as an empty fire extinguisher. Just days before the police action on September 5, Herbert Reul, the interior minister for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, warned that police and RWE staff in the Hambach forest were dealing with "extremely violent left-wing extremists." Members of the protest group have denied Reul's description. Over the years, police have clashed with protesters in the Hambach forest. In 2017, police employed pepper spray to disperse protesters in advance of planned logging. The looming eviction is likely to result in the largest confrontation there yet. Here is the result of a recent RWE clearing campaign, which ran from October 2016 to March 2017. In the background, the smokestacks of the Niederaussem power station can be seen. With a CO2 output of more than 29 million tons yearly, this is Europe's third-dirtiest power plant. Due to massive toxic emissions such as mercury and sulfur, it is also considered Germany's second-most-toxic power plant. "Clumsy" has lived among the treetops in the Hambach forest since the resistance against the RWE coalmine project began in 2012. He believes the battle over the forest is a critical turning point for German climate policy, and the government's decision is one between "giving in to the lignite hardliners, [or] protecting our life support basis on this planet." Only about 10 percent of the once sprawling Hambach forest has survived the mine's onslaught. What's left appears miniscule in comparison to the vast expanse of the mine, which already covers about 85 square kilometers (33 square miles). But environmentalists say the forest holds enormous ecological value, and is home to abundant and biodiverse ecology, including endangered animal species. The Hambach mine, located between Aachen and Cologne, is Germany's largest open-cast mine. Here, RWE uses enormous excavators to extract brown coal, also known as lignite, from the earth. Lignite is among the fossil fuels that emit the most carbon dioxide when burned. What remains of Hambach forest is the last bastion in a long battle against the expansion of the mine. Environmental activists have undertaken nonviolent resistance against the RWE coal mine expansion for more than six years. Through their actions, they claim to not only want to save the Hambach forest from destruction, but also send a message to the world about the dangerous consequences of prioritizing fossil fuel extraction over important ecological sites. Activists from all over the world have supported the action by staying for days or weeks at a time. Over the past six years, activists have literally built up an alternative community within the forest. Although it is still unclear what exactly will happen in the struggle between the protesters and the fossil fuel giant, potential eviction is an ever-present possibility for the forest dwellers. Author: Charli Shield 