Departure times are already being displayed on flight information boards but not everything is ready for the launch of Turkey's new aviation hub called Istanbul Airport. A few steps away, much of the terminal is still a construction site. Kadri Samsunlu is satisfied though. The head of Istanbul Grand Airport (IGA), the consortium in charge of constructing and operating the facility, outlines some key features of the megaproject. The first two runways (out of a total of six) are ready for use, as is the control tower, designed to look like a giant tulip. He says 225,000 jobs will be created directly and indirectly through the airport by 2025, and that the project as a whole will contribute 5 percent to Turkey's GDP. "This facility is being built with Turkish capital, Turkish workers, Turkish banks and Turkish know-how — and this is pumping our self-esteem higher. Really, when I see this place ... we did it! That makes me very proud." The groundbreaking ceremony for what is Istanbul's third airport took place in May 2015. In less than four years, Samsunlu and his team have apparently pulled off the colossal project to the north of Istanbul. Berlin can only dream of such things — 12 years after work started on the new airport for the German capital, there is still no reliable opening date. 200 million passengers per year In Istanbul the dimensions are gigantic. With a total area of 76 million square meters (818 square feet), the new Istanbul Airport is three times as big as Frankfurt Airport. It will immediately become the largest in Europe courtesy of an estimated 90 million passengers per year. And this is just the first of four planned expansion stages. In 10 years, up to 200 million passengers are expected to arrive and depart every year — more than anywhere else in the world. According to Samsunlu, €7.5 billion ($8.52 billion) has been spent so far. The new airport is a pet project of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a symbol of Turkey's supposed status as a global economic power. Erdogan wants Istanbul to be one of the most important air hubs connecting Europe with Asia and the Arab world. However, the Turkish economy is in crisis. The lira has plunged in value and inflation is soaring. Nonetheless, Erdogan insisted that the airport be ready for opening on October 29 — the 95th anniversary of the founding of the modern Turkish republic. The high price of prestige The success of the mega project has been far from absolute though. According to media reports, Turkish farmers had their lands taken from them for the purposes of construction while environmentalists have criticized the wholesale chopping down of huge forest areas. Then there are the workers, who in trying to put the airport up in record time, say they faced dire conditions: fatal accidents, low safety standards and issues over pay. Cemal Özder says construction workers at the airport were treated like slaves "They treated us like slaves," says Cemal Özder. He worked at the airport for nine months. "We often worked from 8 a.m. until 11 p.m., and some say they had to go through the night and still work the morning shift the next day." Özder was fired when he publicly criticized the conditions, he says. He is currently involved with the Turkish trade union confederation DISK, which defends the rights of airport workers. Strikes, protests, deaths Since construction started in 2015, a total of around 35,000 workers have been on the job at one time or another. On-site safety and security was often inadequate says Özder. His union says that at least 38 workers have already died during the construction, while other sources report hundreds of deaths. The government and airport company admits to 30 victims. However, by mid-September, thousands of workers at the airport had gone on strike. According to the trade unionists, the trigger was a bus accident in which 17 workers were seriously injured. Eyewitnesses claim some were even killed in the accident. The protests were broken up and up to 400 workers were detained, according to reports. "Anyone who talks about the abuses is in danger of being jailed," says Özder. "This may be the largest airport in the world, but for me, the project is glued together with the blood of workers." Kadri Samsunlu says the construction workers at the airport are "happy" Samsunlu admits when pressed that there have been some problems during construction. But he says they have been fixed. "Workers demanded certain improvements for their needs. We took the necessary measures. I think we are providing a better service to them. And that's why from my perspective, the issue is under control and the workers are happy." Regular operation from 2019 The airport boss says he is looking ahead and not back, because despite the official opening, there is still a lot of work to do. The large-scale move from Atatürk Airport in the west of the city will take place at the end of the year and the airport will not operate a full schedule of flights until January 2019. Until then, there is just one operation taking place at the airport, totaling five connections per day. Read more: Opinion: A dark time for democracy in Turkey There is also no rail connection at the airport, something of an issue considering the new facility is 50 kilometers (31 miles) from the city center. A metro line is planned to be in operation from 2020. Beijing-Daxing is slated to handle 100 million passengers a year when fully up and running. After its expected opening in October 2019 "only" 45 million passengers will transit through per year. The mega-construction is set to cost over 10 billion euros. With an elevation of 4,411 meters (14,472feet) above sea level, Daocheng Yading airport replaced the previous highest, Bangda airport in the Tibet Autonomous Region. The region is a gateway to Tibet and China has looked to promote tourism as a way of reducing dissent among the native Tibetan population. ... and a lot of tourists and businessmen. With over 83 million passengers, the home airport of Emirates — Dubai International Airport — is the third-largest airport in the world. It is the hub to Southeast Asia, India and Australia. Around 104 million passengers were transported from here in 2016. A year earlier, Atlanta was the first to handle more than 100 million passengers in a year — a world record. Heathrow airport in London — with over 75 million passengers in 2016 — is Europe's largest airport. With the airport operating at full capacity, old terminals are being demolished and new ones built. If a sixth terminal is added, capacity could increase to 115 million passengers per year. Nearly 66 million people flew through here in 2016. This makes Charles de Gaulle the second largest in Europe and the ninth largest in the world. ... is located in Frankfurt. About 60 million people transit through Rhein-Main-Airport each year. In terms of international comparability, it is ranked 13th. Expansion structures are also planned, increasing passenger volume to 73 million. Shanghai is the third-largest airport in China, with 66 million passengers. The current main airport in Beijing (Beijing Capital Airport, with 94 million passengers, is the world's No. 2). The Shanghai Pudong Airport is famous for having the world's only commercially used magnetic levitation train, taking passengers to the modern city district of Pudong. It will be much smaller than the airports mentioned so far — that is if it is finished. 22 million people will transit through BER Berlin Airport, but enlargement buildings are already planned for 2035, which would increase capacity to 58 million. One can only hope that future construction plans run more smoothly than previous ones. The airport of St. Helena on the island of the same name was approved in May 2016 and the first scheduled commercial flight took place on 14 October 2017. It will probably never be one of the largest airports globally. Some British media have described it as "the most useless airport in the world." Author: Insa Wrede (jh)