In the 12th edition of the the World Wide Fund For Nature's biennial publication, the Living Planet Report 2018, the environmental organization unpacks its latest findings on the world's biodiversity. WWF used a dataset, called the Living Planet Index, to track 16,704 populations of more than 4,000 species from 1970 to 2014. This report takes a closer look at population sizes (as opposed to the total number of species) and examines their change over time. It also delves into the ways humans depend on biodiversity, from medicine to food production to protection against storms. Here are five major takeaways from the report: 1. Species' populations are in decline — and it's due to us In total, the populations of vertebrates, or animals with a skeleton, have declined 60 percent since 1970. Populations living in freshwater habitats (and especially freshwater fish) have crashed, with an average population loss of 83 percent due to dams, invasive species, overfishing, pollution, disease and other factors. Populations across the south and central American tropics have suffered the largest declines of 89 percent on average. One cause is mass deforestation in such areas. Brazil's Amazon continues to get deforested Human consumption is driving overexploitation and agriculture, which remain the biggest threats to biodiversity. Since 1500, agriculture and human overexploitation of animals has caused 75 percent of mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, and plant extinction. Considering our ecological footprint, WWF shows that our consumption exceeds the resources we have to replenish what we take from the land and seas. This leads to our second point ... 2. Habitats are shrinking Our consumption habits require a lot from the Earth's surface — the same place that serves as home for animal and plant species. While grazing land, forest products, fishing grounds, and cropland make up a large part of our ecological footprint, most comes from burning fossil fuels. That makes up two-thirds of our ecological footprint, whereas the land our cities and towns take up is the smallest piece. Read more: Earth Overshoot Day: Time for a radical rethink According to United Nations' Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, only a quarter of the world's land is in its natural state. The group estimated that this will shrink to less than 10 percent by 2050. Of world regions, the Caribbean witnessed the greatest habitat loss, of more than 60 percent. Wetlands were the most affected type of habitat around the globe, having decreased 87 percent. A mix of factors impact wetlands, including people building over them, pollution, invasive species, and climate change. 3. There's something in the soil Did you know that one-quarter of life on Earth inhabits the soil beneath our feet? Underground organisms are a fundamental part of the makeup of soils. They take carbon out of the air and help plants absorb nutrients. Read more: Soil — more than just dirt Soils hold more life than you might imagine This biodiversity underground faces threats just like other species. Risks to these creatures include pollution, over-fertilization, fire, overgrazing, soil erosion, climate change and desertification. Read more: Five of the world's biggest environmental problems The newly published Global Soil Biodiversity Atlas maps out for the first time potential threats these creatures face. 4. Valuable nature Nature provides us with services worth $125 trillion (110 trillion euros) every year. That includes protection coral reefs provide against storm surge and waves, carbon sequestered by mangroves, pollination by animals, and the benefits of medicinal plants. Read more: South Africa: Finding a remedy to save medicinal plants Pollinators provide "ecological services" to humans worth billions Pollinators are a focal point of the Living Planet Report. It notes that they account for $235 billion to $577 billion in crop production every year. Beyond 20,000 species of bees, other insects like moths, butterflies, wasps, flies and beetles also help pollinate plants, as do some birds and bats. Pollinators face threats from pesticide use and changing land use due to urban and agricultural expansion.These important animals pollinate more than one-third of the crops we depend on. Read more: Insects perish at the frontlines of humans' war with nature 5. WWF gives us 2 years With its eyes set on 2020, the World Wildlife Fund sees the next two years as crucial for changing how we humans use the Earth's resources. Can we learn to live with nature instead of simply using it up? "Without a dramatic move beyond 'business as usual,' the current severe decline of the natural systems that support modern societies will continue — with serious consequences for nature and people," WWF says in the report. The year 2020 marks key international events, such a meeting of the Convention on Biological Diversity and due dates for some environmental targets for the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Living Planet Report points out that many of the Convention on Biological Diversity's targets for 2010 to 2020 are unlikely to be achieved. However, it says the 2050 goals will need to be more ambitious in order to recover biodiversity. Many species' survival may depend on such ambitions. The Mauritian Flying Fox — an important pollinator — has moved from vulnerable to endangered on the IUCN Red List. The bat population fell by a whopping 50 percent from 2015 to 2016 due largely to government-implemented culling sparked by alleged damage to fruit crops. The fox also faces threats from deforestation, illegal hunting and an increase in cyclone activity. A number of unique Australian reptiles are being threatened by invasive species. This grassland earless dragon has shifted from vulnerable to endangered. It often falls prey to feral cats, as well as changes to the intensity and frequency of bushfires. Like most native Australian wildlife, the reptile is adapted to environmental conditions that existed before European settlement. This cane toad is far from endangered, but the toxic pest is posing an increasing existential threat to Australia's wildlife. Since being introduced in 1935, the toad has wreaked havoc on the country's native species. Mitchell's water monitor is among the Australian reptiles to make it on to the IUCN Red List as critically endangered as a result, having been unable to adapt to the toad's toxins. Taking its name from The Lord of the Rings character Smeagol — aka Gollum — the precious stream toad is now listed as vulnerable, largely as a result of expanding tourist resorts and complexes in its Genting Highlands habitat in Malaysia. But there is some good news for amphibians — four species previously considered to be critically endangered, possibly extinct or extinct were rediscovered in Columbia and Ecuador. The Carchi Andes toad was so severely impacted by habitat loss as a result of logging, agriculture and the spraying of herbicide that it was feared to have disappeared forever. The population of keas, New Zealand’s Bird of the Year 2017, is declining rapidly, mostly due to tourists who keep feeding the curious parrots junk food. As a result, the birds get used to trying novel food and end up eating poison baits meant to control pests such as rats, stoats, or possums, which destroy up to 60 percent of the birds' nests each year. You can see the connection, can't you? Black-legged kittiwakes rely on certain key prey, like sand eels. Lacking the food, breeding colonies in the North Atlantic and Pacific are struggling to feed their chicks. Globally, the species is thought to have declined by around 40 percent since the 1970s. The main cause is overfishing and alterations in the ocean due to climate change. The snowy owl has shot up to vulnerable status, with recent population estimates much lower than previously thought. Climate change has hit the iconic Arctic bird hard, increasing snowmelt and reducing the availability of rodent prey. A quarter of bird species reassessed in the Red List, including the snowy owl, have become more endangered. Five species of African antelopes — of which four were previously assessed as least concern — are declining drastically as a result of poaching, habitat degradation and competition with domestic livestock. One of these is the grey rhebok, which the Reebok sports brand is named after. The world's largest antelope, the giant eland — previously assessed as least concern — is now vulnerable. Its estimated global population is between 12,000 and 14,000 at most, with fewer than 10,000 mature animals. This species is declining due to poaching for bushmeat, encroachment into protected areas and expansion of agriculture and livestock grazing. Author: Dave Keating, Ajit Niranjan, Ineke Mules