People responsible for the death of Jamal Khashoggi "must be held accountable," German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said in a joint statement on Saturday, after Saudi Arabia admitted that the 59-year-old reporter had died in the Saudi kingdom's consulate in Istanbul. Merkel and Maas condemned the reporter's death "in the strongest possible terms." "We expect transparency from Saudi Arabia regarding the circumstances of the death and its background," they said in the statement issued by the foreign ministry. "The available information on the events in the Istanbul consulate is insufficient," they said. Commenting on the latest Saudi statement on Saturday, Merkel said that "nothing has been explained so far and we need to explain it." Maas questions Germany's arms sales Separately, Foreign Minister Maas said he opposes exporting German weapons to Saudi Arabia "as long as we don't know what happened there." The oil-rich kingdom is the second-largest buyer of German arms, behind only Algeria. Berlin approved €416.4 million ($480.1 million) of weapons exports to Riyadh during the first nine months of 2018. The EU's foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, called for a "thorough, credible and transparent investigation" into the "deeply troubling" circumstances of Khashoggi's death. France's Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian also said that many questions remain "unanswered." "They require an exhaustive and diligent investigation to establish exactly who was responsible and ensure that those guilty of the murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi answer for their actions," he added. Saudi Arabia denies its denials Earlier on Saturday, Riyadh said that the Washington Post reporter died when "discussions" between him and people he met on the premises "dissolved into a fistfight." "The investigations are still underway and 18 Saudi nationals have been arrested," according to a statement from the Saudi public prosecutor. Royal court adviser Saud al-Qahtani and deputy intelligence chief Ahmed Asiri, both close aides to the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, have been sacked, the statement added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36T3r The announcement marks a sharp break with previous accounts of the Khashoggi case. For 17 days after the reporter's disappearance, the kingdom claimed that he had safely left the diplomatic compound. In contrast, Turkish media reported that Turkish investigators have evidence, including recordings, that Khashoggi was tortured, killed and dismembered by a Saudi hit squad that was sent to the consulate ahead of his arrival. Read more: Saudi Arabia is Germany's second-best weapons customer Turkey rejects cover-up Also on Saturday, a senior official in Turkey's ruling party said Ankara would "never allow a cover-up" of Khashoggi's killing. "It's not possible for the Saudi administration to wiggle itself out of this crime, if it's confirmed," said Numan Kurtulmus, deputy head of the Justice and Development Party, adding that Turkey would share "conclusive evidence and findings" after the probe is completed. Trump says Saudi confession not good enough US President Donald Trump told reporters on Saturday that he was not satisfied with Saudi Arabia's account of Khashoggi's death, but warned against halting Saudi arms sales in response. Speaking in Nevada, he added that it was possible Prince Mohammed had been unaware of the killing. The remarks differ from earlier comments in which he urged presumption of innocence for Riyadh and said he found the kingdom's account credible and a "good first step." International human rights watchdog Amnesty International said that the Saudi account was "not trustworthy" and called on Riyadh to produce Khashoggi's body so that independent forensic experts might determine the cause of his death. Amnesty's Middle East director of campaigns, Samah Hadid, also called for an investigation to be headed by the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres in order to avoid a "Saudi whitewash." An international probe would also curb the efforts of other governments to "sweep the issue under the carpet to preserve lucrative arms deals and other business ties with Riyadh," she added. dj/jm (dpa, AP, AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.