The Boston Red Sox dominated this year's World Series much as they had done their playoff series against the New York Yankees and the Houston Astros as well as the regular season, clinching the title with a 5-1 win in Los Angeles on Sunday night. The Red Sox, who collected 108 victories in Major League Baseball's 162-game regular season, earned the final win on the back of solid starting pitching from David Price, who allowed just three hits before leaving the game in the eighth inning. First baseman Steve Pearce, who was subsequently named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the World Series, led the Red Sox's offense, hitting two home runs in Game 5. Pearce, 35, who had been acquired in a trade with the Toronto Blue Jays in June, posted a .333 batting average and a 1.167 slugging percentage in the World Series. This included three home runs and a crucial three-run double in Saturday's win in Game 4. "This is the greatest feeling of my life. When you're a kid, this is where you want to be. And it's happening right now," Pearce said afterwards. "I'm in a dream right now." "Seeing all these grown men over there, just acting like kids, that's what it's all about," Price said. "This is why I came to Boston." This was the Boston's' ninth World Series title and the fourth since 2004, when the Red Sox ended an 86-year championship drought. Their first-year manager, Alex Cora, became just the fifth rookie manager to win a World Series and the first ever from Puerto Rico. Cora had already won a World Series ring as a bench coach with last year's champions, the Houston Astros. pfd/dv (AP, AFP, Reuters) The summer national high school baseball tournament (commonly known as Koshien), has been around since 1915, and this year was the 100th edition. The tournament includes nearly 4,000 teams from around Japan. The tournament is not only to showcase the best high school baseball players in Japan; it also brings everyone in the local community together to cheer for their local team. In order to make the national competition in Nishinomiya, the school must first win their prefecture's tournament. The Tokyo prefecture is allowed to have two teams. During opening ceremonies for the Tokyo regional tournaments, teams march in Meiji Jingu Stadium (home of the Tokyo Yakult Swallows) starting with the defending champions from West and East Tokyo. Players are expected to fully devote themselves to the team. That even means shaving their heads, celebrating sacrifice bunts, even sliding into first base. That shows their full dedication to the team. Teams are limited to 18 members, one starter and one back-up player for each position. That means top pitchers throw several games in a row and can destroy their arms in the process. Everyone on the field and in the stands shows utmost respect at all times. Making it to the national tournament is an accomplishment in itself. Nishogakusha won the East Tokyo regional over Oyamadai, 6-3, for their third ever appearance in the national tournament. Players that make the national tournament have a higher chance of getting scouted by professional teams in Japan and beyond. The national tournament takes place in Koshien Stadium in Nishinomiya. The ground is usually the home field of the professional Hanshin Tigers, but they leave the ground every year to let the tournament take place. Losing teams take home the dirt from the infield as a token of the hard work needed to get to the national tournament. If the pressure of playing on the national stage doesn't get to the players, the heat certainly will. Temperatures consistently soar over 33 degrees Celsius (91.4 degrees Fahrenheit) even during morning games. With apologies to Tom Hanks, there is a place for crying at Koshien. Whenever a team loses, be it in the regional or national tournament, the tournament is over for them. Japan's original "God of Baseball" Suishu Tobita said, "players that cannot even cry when they lose are not serious enough." Fans wait for hours to watch the national tournament, and camp out overnight for a chance at a ticket for the finals. At the national tournament, the winning school's song is played over the loudspeakers after every game, as the winning team stands at home plate. This year, Osaka Toin High School won the tournament after defeating Kanaashi Nogyo in the final, 13-2. Author: Kai Dambach (Tokyo)