The Dresden district court on Tuesday said it would hear evidence against former AfD co-leader Petry over an allegation of perjury. The 43-year-old is accused of lying under oath in November 2015, when she and her fellow AfD member Carsten Hütter are alleged to have given conflicting testimony about the AfD candidate list and campaign financing for Saxony's 2014 state election. The election was the first that saw the AfD take seats in one of Germany's state parliaments; it's now represented in every state chamber bar one. Petry — who won a seat with the AfD in that election — has already admitted to a mistake in the evidence that she gave at the electoral oversight committee hearing in November 2015, but she said it was not intentional. Read more: How the far-right AfD taps into Germany's East-West divide Perjury can carry a sentence of at least a year in jail in Germany, or six months in minor cases. A date for the hearing has still not been set. Hans-Georg Maassen, the head of Germany's Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) — the domestic intelligence service — is no stranger to controversy. Calls for him to step down have been a constant throughout his long career in the intelligence community. Maassen gained notoriety in 2002 while working for the German Interior Ministry and arguing that Murat Kurnaz, a German resident held in the US prison at Guantanamo for five years before being released, could not return to Germany because his residency had lapsed. Herta Däubler-Gmelin, who was justice minister at the time, called Maassen's argument, "false, appalling and inhumane." In 2012, Maassen was tapped to lead Germany's top spy agency. He promised to restore faith in the BfV, which was embroiled in controversy over its entanglement in the right-wing extremist scene and his predecessor's decision to destroy files related to the neo-Nazi NSU murders. Maassen has been accused of having "a troubled relationship with basic democratic principles" for his pursuit of bloggers on grounds of treason and trying to suppress negative stories on the BfV. In January 2017, he told parliament reports the BfV had undercover agents in the Islamist scene connected to the Berlin Christmas market attack were false. Records showing it did became public in 2018. Before Maassen made headlines by questioning the veracity of videos of right-wing protestors chasing foreigners through the streets of Chemnitz, he was under fire for advising right-wing populist party Alternative for Germany (AfD) on how to avoid scrutiny from his agency. Now he is accused of sharing confidential documents with the AfD before presenting them to the public. Author: Jon Shelton The accusations are in connection with loans that AfD candidates in Saxony gave to the far-right party to finance campaigning in the eastern state. The AfD was accused of taking a candidate off its list because he was not willing to give a loan to the party. Read more: AfD says German state, media favor the left — do they? Petry joined the AfD in 2013 and quickly rose through the ranks to be one of the party's public faces. She assumed the role of party co-leader in 2015, but stepped down in 2017, soon after being elected to the German national parliament on the AfD ticket. Petry said she would not be representing the AfD in the federal parliament, but she is still entitled to a Bundestag seat having won a direct mandate in the 2017 vote. In October last year, Petry announced that she would form a new party called the Blue Party, intended to be positioned to the left of the AfD. rc/msh (dpa, epd) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.