German energy concern RWE is preparing to clear out trees from the 12,000-year-old Hambach Forest after police removed the last remaining activist treehouses on Tuesday. With protesters out of the way, the company is moving to secure the area by digging out a 1-1.5 meter (3.3 to 5 feet) trench along a part of its border. Workers also roped and taped off other parts of the forest, complete with "keep out" signs. By sealing off the area, the German company has the legal right to prosecute protesters as trespassers. Read more: Hambach Forest is a battleground for climate action "We will not stand for people getting inside and occupying the forest again after the removal (of protesters) was apparently finished today," RWE spokesman Guido Steffen said on Tuesday. The activists' treehouses in Hambach Forest have been removed RWE to start clearance The widely-publicized conflict between the coal mining company and environmental activists saw thousands of people rally to preserve ancient woods across Germany. The activists also camped in the forest in dozens of the specially-built treehouses. Three weeks ago, police deployed a large force to remove the activists and dismantle around 60 of the wooden houses. On Monday, police raided the camp, accusing protesters of building more treehouses in secret. Around 80 of the improvised shelters were removed by Tuesday. Activists trying to save Hambach Forest have been removed by police Read more: Stillness and schock in Hambach Forest after journalist dies The company said the newly-erected barriers were placed for "security reasons" but were not "martial" reinforcements against the protesters. They would also serve to keep people safe once the deforestation starts, according to the RWE. The energy concern refused to specify the exact starting date for removing the Hambach Forest trees. There was also a "high degree of probability" that police would stay deployed in the area, according to a police spokeswoman. Read more: German energy executive severely injured in acid attack At the heart of Europe, in western Germany, near the border to France and Belgium, a scrap of ancient forest holds thousand-year-old trees along with abundant wildlife. But there's another species living there in the forest as well — our own. About 150 people currently live in what's left of Hambach forest, many in makeshift tree houses. Although living in a tree house may appear idyllic, many of the environmental activists have uprooted their lives for the better part of six years — living without electricity and running water — to protect the forest, and take a stance against the power of the fossil fuel industry. Several hundred police officers accompanied RWE workers for protection as they visited the forest on Wednesday, September 5, to expel the protesters in preparation for clearing. Although the operation was mostly peaceful, one activist was arrested after resisting police. Activists joke about their "dangerous weapons," such as an empty fire extinguisher. Just days before the police action on September 5, Herbert Reul, the interior minister for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, warned that police and RWE staff in the Hambach forest were dealing with "extremely violent left-wing extremists." Members of the protest group have denied Reul's description. Over the years, police have clashed with protesters in the Hambach forest. In 2017, police employed pepper spray to disperse protesters in advance of planned logging. The looming eviction is likely to result in the largest confrontation there yet. Here is the result of a recent RWE clearing campaign, which ran from October 2016 to March 2017. In the background, the smokestacks of the Niederaussem power station can be seen. With a CO2 output of more than 29 million tons yearly, this is Europe's third-dirtiest power plant. Due to massive toxic emissions such as mercury and sulfur, it is also considered Germany's second-most-toxic power plant. "Clumsy" has lived among the treetops in the Hambach forest since the resistance against the RWE coalmine project began in 2012. He believes the battle over the forest is a critical turning point for German climate policy, and the government's decision is one between "giving in to the lignite hardliners, [or] protecting our life support basis on this planet." Only about 10 percent of the once sprawling Hambach forest has survived the mine's onslaught. What's left appears miniscule in comparison to the vast expanse of the mine, which already covers about 85 square kilometers (33 square miles). But environmentalists say the forest holds enormous ecological value, and is home to abundant and biodiverse ecology, including endangered animal species. The Hambach mine, located between Aachen and Cologne, is Germany's largest open-cast mine. Here, RWE uses enormous excavators to extract brown coal, also known as lignite, from the earth. Lignite is among the fossil fuels that emit the most carbon dioxide when burned. What remains of Hambach forest is the last bastion in a long battle against the expansion of the mine. Environmental activists have undertaken nonviolent resistance against the RWE coal mine expansion for more than six years. Through their actions, they claim to not only want to save the Hambach forest from destruction, but also send a message to the world about the dangerous consequences of prioritizing fossil fuel extraction over important ecological sites. Activists from all over the world have supported the action by staying for days or weeks at a time. Over the past six years, activists have literally built up an alternative community within the forest. Although it is still unclear what exactly will happen in the struggle between the protesters and the fossil fuel giant, potential eviction is an ever-present possibility for the forest dwellers. Author: Charli Shield Greens: 'not necessary' to destroy the trees Environmental activists are preparing another large protest for Saturday. They are supported by Green party lawmakers in North Rhine-Westphalia state where the forest lies. On Tuesday, senior Green deputy Monika Düker admitted that the German energy giant had a legal right to go ahead with its plans. "But it is not necessary to go through with it," Düker said, pointing to Germany's plans to eliminate coal as an energy source. On Sunday, RWE CEO Rolf Martin Schmitz said there was "no possibility" of sparing the forest. dj/jm (AFP, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35LaA Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.