In a landmark decision on Tuesday, the United Nations Human Rights Committee found that a French law banning full-face veils in public violates the religious freedom rights of Muslim women. It is the first time the UN has ruled on full-face veil bans and could have implications for several other European countries that have implemented similar legislation. How the committee ruled: Most Islamic scholars agree that the hijab, which covers the head and neck, and comes in any number of shapes and colors, must be worn by Muslim women. American teen Hannah Schraim is seen wearing one here while playing with her brother. The chador, which is usually black, is a body-length outer garmet often worn in Iran and among modern-minded women in the Gulf States, as here in Saudi Arabia. It is not fastened with clasps or buttons and therefore has to be held closed by the wearer. A niqab is a veil and scarf that covers the entire face yet leaves the eyes free. It covers a woman's hair, as it falls to the middle of her back and some are also half-length in the front so as to cover her chest. Here it is being worn by women attending a rally by Salafi radicals in Germany. An abaya is a loose-fitting, full-length garment designed to cover the body. It may come in many different styles, as seen here at an Arab fashion show, and is often worn in combination with hijab or niqab. The burqa is the most extensive of all Muslim garments, covering the entire body from head to toe. It traditionally has a woven mesh area around the eyes to allow women to see. In this case enabling them to cast their ballots in Pakistani parliamentary elections. Queen Rania of Jordan says that Islam does not coerce women to wear any head coverings, and that it is more important to judge a woman by her ethics and values, rather than what she wears. She is seen here meeting with refugees in Greece. Author: Jon Shelton Not an attack on secularity The panel, comprised of 18 independent human rights experts from around the world, emphasized that their decision wasn't intended as a challenge France's secular constitution. "The decisions are not directed against the notion of secularity, nor are they an endorsement of a custom which many on the committee, including myself, regard as a form of oppression of women," committee chairman Yuval Shany said. Why France implemented the ban: In 2010, a law went into effect in France banning people from wearing "any article of clothing intended to conceal the face" in public. Those who violate the ban face a €150 ($171) fine. France argued that the ban was necessary for "social cohesion" and for security reasons — arguments that the UN committee rejected. France also has an explicitly secular constitution, a famous legislative example of which being a blanket ban on wearing conspicuously religious symbols in state-run primary and secondary schools. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/333wK Potential impact on Europe's veil bans: Tuesday's rulings could carry potential consequences for several other countries in Europe that currently have so-called "burqa bans," including Austria, Belgium, Denmark and the Netherlands. The ruling also contradicts a 2014 ruling by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which upheld the French law, dismissing arguments that it violated religious freedom. What happens next: French President Emmanuel Macron's government now has 180 days to report back to the committee on what action it has taken. Although France is obligated to heed the ruling, the UN body does not have any powers to enforce their decision. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31xHW rs/msh  (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.