"No, no – that’s not a photo of my younger brother," jokes Tarek al-Wazir, outside the German Green Party headquarters in Berlin. Behind him stands a huge billboard sporting his photoshopped image and the slogan "Tarek statt GroKo," or "Tarek instead of GroKo" (the abbreviation of Germany’s "grand coalition" government, made up of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives (CDU), their Bavarian sister party (CSU) and the Social Democrats (SPD)). "We’re warning voters against voting for the big tent parties. Vote Greens." It’s one of the Green Party’s main campaign messages ahead of the Hesse state election on October 28: avoid a repeat of what’s going on at federal level. Merkel’s conservatives have been the strongest party in Hesse since 1987 and currently govern as the major coalition party with the Greens. But that may be about to change. Read more: Record-low support for Angela Merkel's government Greens at historic highs Tired after months of infighting over migration policy and personnel debates in Germany's federal government, voters are reacting at the polls on a state level. Cashing in on votes due to the failings of the conservatives and the Social Democrats is the Green Party. Barely two weeks since Merkel's conservative brothers in Bavaria suffered historic losses in the southern states' election, the potential ousting of Hesse State Premier and close Merkel ally Volker Bouffier this week would be a huge blow to Merkel’s credibility as party leader, while yet another setback in the polls would once again question the legitimacy of Merkel’s waning "GroKo" federal government. Should Merkel's party indeed lose the Hesse state premiership, the success of the Greens, some 500 km away from Berlin, could come at the price of the federal government. Touted to replace Bouffier, should the conservatives lose the state premiership, is leader of the Hesse Green party campaign and current Hesse Economy Minister al-Wazir. "Tarek is one of the most intelligent politicians of my generation in the Greens,"  Robert Habeck, Green Party co-leader, tells DW. "I think Tarek is capable of anything." German Green Party co-leader Robert Habeck Right now, the question is whether al-Wazir is capable of turning the Greens' record highs in the polls into a reality. But despite the Greens reaching the dizzying new heights of 20-22 percent in recent weeks – both at national and state level – the 47-year-old is wary of letting the high altitude up in the polls get the better of him. "I’ve been doing this a long time," he says in Berlin, with a wave of his hand. "Long enough to know that dispositions don’t mean votes. That’s why we won’t stop campaigning till the very end." 'Down-to-earth' Born in 1971 to a German mother and Yemeni father, al-Wazir was politicized from a young age, with his mother taking him to demonstrations. He grew up in Offenbach, minutes away from Germany’s financial hub, Frankfurt. For two years, at the age of 14, he moved to the Yemeni capital, Sanaa, to where his father had already returned. Asked by a German journalist in Berlin this week, about his "experience of migration" in Germany, it was clear that his family history was not about to play a role in his election campaign. Looking as if he might ignore the question entirely, al-Wazir pursed his lips before launching into his answer. Something he's apt at, whether stood behind the safety of a podium or chatting milk prices with voters over a cappuccino and cake, he's able to take control of the situation. His heavy doses of sarcasm avoid any confusion with arrogance. "I'll tell you about my 'experience of migration,'" he said, as a room full of journalists readjusted in their seats at the Green Party HQ. "When I was 14, I went to Yemen. For two years. I didn't know the place. I couldn't speak the language. That's my migration experience. Yes, under Germany's criterium, I have migration roots. That means, I have at least one parent who came from a different country after 1955. But so do [German MEP] David McAllister and [German Justice Minister] Katharina Barley (SPD)." Both of the mentioned politicians have one British parent. For first-time voter Bruno Sanzenbacher, however, al-Wazir's family history is something that has motivated the 18-year-old in politics. "Al-Wazir encompasses what it means to come from Offenbach, better than anyone else round here," the 18-year-old told DW. "He's the symbol for Offenbach, that says anyone can make it. Even when they're not called 'Müller' like every other person." Read more: German population with immigrant background reaches new peak 'Coffee with Tarek and Robert': Voters in Tarek Al-Wazir's hometown voice their concerns Deep Green roots In 1989, before even graduating high school to study political science in Frankfurt, al-Wazir became a member of the Green Party. Soon after, he became chairperson of the party’s youth wing and in 1995 was first voted in to Hesse’s state parliament. And there he’s stayed, where most of the time he prefers to stay out of federal debates and close to local politics.  "He’s very close to the voters. Very down-to-earth. That's what makes him appealing," said one local in Offenbach. At a "Coffee with Tarek and Robert" campaign event, al-Wazir’s ranking as Hesse’s favorite politician was confirmed with the dozens of people spilling out onto the pavement of in front of a packed café. Inside, voters wait to have their concerns addressed by al-Wazir and the German Green Party co-leader: education, transport, affordable housing, milk prices. Not once was the issue that has dominated national German politics for the past three years addressed: migration. 'Greens profiting from government failings' Addressing the issues at hand and not being "wrapped up in personnel debates" contributes to the Green Party’s strong position in opinion polls ahead of Sunday’s election, al-Wazir said. "The Greens are certainly profiting from the fact that the CDU/CSU and SPD, as a grand coalition, aren’t painting a good picture. But the Greens aren’t only doing well because of the weakness of others. People know what we stand for and that we also take responsibility for the content of our program," he told DW. Read more: Germany's political parties – what you need to know Indeed, the Hesse Greens are doing well, and have come out the other side of a five-year coalition with the conservatives better off than anyone might have expected. Hesse was the first state to experiment with the so-called "black-green" coalition comprised of the CDU/CSU and Greens.  But the conservative hand wasn’t an easy one for al-Wazir to hold, particularly after the CDU’s targeted 2008 campaign poster. "Stop the communists!" read the placard, targeting the lead Green Party, SPD and Left Party candidates – including al-Wazir. No coalition campaigns, just party campaigns Proving the skeptics wrong, the "black-green" coalition made it through the last five years – much to the delight, no doubt, of Merkel, who would be happy to see such a coalition at federal level. And the incumbent conservative State Premier Bouffier has made no secret of the fact that he’d like to continue with the current coalition in Hesse. But al-Wazir refuses to speculate. Prompted by the stinging memory of failed coalition talks with the Left Party and SPD back in 2008, al-Wazir has been keen to ensure that the Greens take their own path on the election campaign. "First, we need an election result. Then we can see what could function mathematically, and then what would work when it comes to policy," he said in Berlin this week. "There are no coalition campaigns, just party campaigns." Destroyed and rebuilt many times over the centuries, Heidelberg's Gothic and Renaissance style castle is a huge draw for tourists, including Mark Twain and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. 3.8 million people visted the ruins of the royal residence in 2016. Founded in 1386, Heidelberg University is Germany's oldest. The students make up over a quarter of the city's population of 156,000 people. According to a study by Germany's Die Welt newspaper, the Green party has the most voters with university degrees. According to that same study, along with the business-friendly Free Democrats, Green party voters are also the richest. Rental costs in Heidelberg far exceed the national average, and are even well above the average for the relatively wealthy state of Baden-Württemberg. Electric buses, cyclists, and young families - the average Green party voter is indistinguishable from the average Heidelberger. You'll find similar tableaus in nearby Green strongholds like Freiburg and Tübingen, similarly wealthy and well-educated college towns in Baden-Württemberg. Another typical sight in Heidelberg - an international art exhibition. Organized by Franziska Brantner, the Green party politician who represents Heidelberg in the Bundestag, the work showcases Iranian girls and their dreams for the future. "Comospolitan" is a word many Heidelbergers happily apply to their city, and foreign outreach programs are a mainstay of Green party politics. The next day, Brantner visited the Marie-Baum high school. Together with other politicians, she participated in a "speed dating" event to encourage young voters to question their would-be representatives about refugees, terrorism, and domestic policy. Members of the Campus Grüne brave the rain to deliver flyers. In keeping with the party's history as an oppositional force, this group refuses to align itself with the official Green party of Baden-Württemberg, because they do not agree with some of the policies the party has adopted now that heads the state government. "Conscious" is how Christiane Link describes the customers at her highly successful artisanal organic bakery Mahlzahn. Founded in 1982 by three Green party-affiliated bakers, the bakery (and its three new branches) has stayed true to its roots as a collective dedicated to hand-made bread created on site. Any good Green supporter gets their organic, whole-wheat rye loaf at Mahlzahn. Heidelberg received high praise for its handling of the migration wave in 2015. Some 600 refugees arrived in the city at the height of the crisis. One integration project the city can be particularly proud of is the "Weltliga" football club. Hundreds of young men, like these two from Iraq and Syria, played against groups of locals - brought together by a common love of sport. Heidelberg has long been a Green party stronghold. The famous political artist Klaus Stäck grew up here, and was undoubtedly influenced by its commitment to environmentalism. In this poster from the 1980s, found on the city's famous Philosopher's Way, Stäck chides capitalists to "go forth and subdue the earth." Author: Elizabeth Schumacher