About 50 years ago, Bernd Alois Zimmermann devoted thought to the factor of time in human consciousness. If "Time becomes space" — to quote Alfred Einstein and decades earlier, Richard Wagner — Zimmermann felt that time had a spherical form. Like an overture that presents the themes of the opera to come not in chronological fashion but all jumbled up, he felt that past and future events are mixed up in our consciousness too, as brain researches and psychologists know as well. To quote Zimmermann, past and future events are "bent into a sphere." One expression of that notion is "Die Soldaten" (The Soldiers), an opera that calls for such massive musical forces that it was long considered unperformable but is turning up every now and then on playbills these days. Zimmermann was an avant-garde composer in the music scene half a century ago, but he also had tradition in mind — and loved to quote music from every era and enter it into his compositions like a collage. This hour we will hear a piece from his hand that is in fact 100 percent pre-existing musical material: "Music for King Ubu's Suppers" includes motifs and passages from Wagner, Stravinsky and Bach to music of Zimmermann's contemporaries, performed by a classical orchestra backed up by a jazz combo. Francois-Xavier Roth But who is King Ubu? Invented by the French author Alfred Jarry, the character may be regarded as standing for all the power-hungry tyrants of the world. The individual sections have titles like "Entrance of the Academy" and "Cradle Song of the Bankers who can't go to sleep." At the end, there's the "March of the Brain Smashing Machine," built on the "Walk to the Executioner" from Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. This performance in the Cologne Philharmonie had a political twist, with conductor Francois-Xavier Roth wearing a wig to make him resemble US President Donald Trump. Various personages from German politics and topical and philosophical issues were referenced as well, portrayed by the musicians in the orchestra. These cannot be seen in our radio transmission of course, but lovers of classical music will enjoy identifying the many musical quotes. Cologne's philharmonic concert hall, the "Philharmonie"  Bernd Alois Zimmermann West German Radio Symphony Orchestra  Emilio Pomarico, conductor  Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Cologne Philharmonie on May 5, 2018 Johann Sebastian Bach Ich will den Kreuzstab gerne tragen (I will gladly bear the cross, excerpt), BWV 56    Georg Nigl, baritone  Choir of the Bach Association Cologne  Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra  Michael Wendeberg, conductor  Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Cologne Philharmonie on May 10, 2018 Bernd Alois Zimmermann Music for King Ubu's Suppers Gürzenich Orchestra, Cologne François-Xavier Roth, conductor  Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Cologne Philharmonie on May 15, 2018 