Urn or casket, responsibility for maintaining a grave plot, funeral speeches, organization of the memorial service, obituaries sent out individually or printed in the newspaper – the bereaved have a lot to decide and take care of after a loved one's death. About 935,000 people die in Germany every year. At the same time, cemeteries increasingly face vast, unused spaces. Oliver Wirthmann,director of the Düsseldorf-based German Funeral Culture Board of Trustees, explains why. DW: German society is changing, and with it, funeral and mourning rites and rituals are shifting, too. What has been the biggest change? Oliver Wirthmann: Cremations are a mega trend. Basically, there are but two burial options in Germany: inhumation and cremation. There's no getting around that. Cremation has become the foremost burial form with about 62 percent nationwide over the past years, compared to 51 percent ten years ago. And we're seeing an upward trend. Then, there's also a trend to more personal, custom-made burials. People are moving away from set rites. Often ignoring "how things were always done in the past" in their region, they organize a funeral fitting for the deceased. On the other hand, Germans are conservative. They shy away from anything too extravagant that might be possible in other countries, like scattering ashes from a hot air balloon or preserving the body for reanimation in the future. Germans love tradition, it gives them orientation and something to hold on to.  Cemeteries provide watering cans to help people keep grave sites neat  Wirthmann:'Mourning has a public dimension, too' Which traditions do Germans consider important? Graveyards play an important role, they are places of private and public mourning. You can commemorate a person in a very individual manner, and people can come and go. The public dimension of mourning is significant, and cemeteries are very important places worth preserving. Holding a funeral or memorial service is just as important. Why aren't Germans allowed to keep a loved one's ashes on their mantlepiece at home? For cultural reasons, as well as reasons concerning the psychology of grief. Mourning is a public event and people are wrong to say, "It's my own private business." There are always other people who have a right to grieve too. Do you see Germany headed toward a new trend any time soon? We expect that, due also to the rise in migrants, funerals and how we cope with the loss of loved ones will become more heterogeneous and diverse. Other cultures will influence our way of bidding farewell, and they will be influenced by how we grieve and bury our deceased. It's never a one-way-street. Interview: Dagmar Breitenbach