Bavarians headed to the polls on Sunday in a historical vote to elect a regional parliament and government that could see the long-ruling Christian Social Union (CSU) lose their absolute majority in the state legislature. The election could spell trouble for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's fragile coalition government, which comprises her Christian Democrats (CDU), their Bavarian sister party, the CSU, and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD). Polls suggest: Read more: The surprising success of Germany's Green party Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36UtO Why is it a big deal? If the CSU performs as badly as polls suggest, it could cause instability within Merkel's government. Her interior minister, Horst Seehofer, leads the CSU and gave up his premiership of Bavaria for a spot in the federal government. Seehofer has nearly torpedoed the government in his pursuit of hard-line policies on irregular migration. He has criticized Merkel's open-door policy for refugees. Observers have suggested he could resign if the CSU performs poorly. Some analysts believe Merkel could benefit from that in the short-term. Read more: Why the Bavarian election matters for Angela Merkel Why is the CSU polling so poorly? While it's hard to pinpoint the exact cause, there are plenty of factors to take into account. The AfD appears to have pulled support from the CSU's conservative base with its hard-line policy vision. Some observers have suggested that Seehofer's divisive role in the federal government has also contributed to a loss of support in Bavaria. Instead of playing up migration, the CSU's Markus Söder, who serves as the Bavarian premier, has opted for another option, such as casting an inclusive and prosperous image of the state. He is crediting his party for the state's economic performance and low unemployment. But its unclear that will turn into votes. Read more: Bavaria's Christian Social Union: What you need to know Markus Söder has tried to boost the CSU's image ahead of the vote How many people can vote? More than 9.4 million people are eligible to cast their vote in the state election. According to the latest polls, roughly half of them were undecided as of earlier this week. When will preliminary results be released? The first projected results based on an amalgamation of exit polls will be released at 6 p.m. local time (16:00 UTC). Official results will be released later. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Bavaria gets to top it all by being home to Germany's highest peak. The Zugspitze in the Bavarian Alps reaches 2,962 meters (9,718 ft) above sea level. Visitors, however, don't have to invest a lot of energy to reach the summit to enjoy the fabulous views. There are three cable cars and a rack railway to take you to the top. The largest people's fair in the world attracts some 6 million visitors and has spawned offshoots around the world. Beer in one liter glasses, women in Dirndl dresses, men in Lederhosen as well as music and dancing in all of the tents. The only genuine Oktoberfest is found in Munich - which has played host since 1810. The Bavarian metropolis is one of the most beautiful cities in Germany. First stop for visitors is the Marienplatz square with the Frauenkirche church and the New Town Hall with its antique Glockenspiel. Other attractions include the Hofbräuhaus beer hall, Nymphenburg Palace, the Englischer Garten park as well as many museums like the Deutsches Museum - the largest science museum in the world. Munich is home to Germany's most successful football clubs. FC Bayern home games are played at the Allianz Arena. And for those who can't afford tickets for the match can still feel close to Lewandowski, Robben and Müller by taking a guided tour around the stadium. The Romanesque Revival palace is the top attraction. Some 1.4 million people visit it every year - something the shy and recluse King Ludwig II who commissioned the castle probably would not enjoy. He had the castle built in 1869 as a personal refuge to allow him to escape into the realm of legends and fairytales. Today the castle of the fairytale king is admired by people from around the world. Translated, it would be the 'King's Lake,' and as such it is regarded as the king of the roughly 200 lakes in Bavaria: cut deep into the Berchtesgaden Alps, the crystal clear water creates a nearly fairytale atmosphere. Since 1909 the pilgrimage church St Bartholomä can only be reached by boat - an environmentally friendly electronic boat. The small town in the Franconia region is purely medieval. Tourists from Asia in particular love the timber framed houses and the town wall with its fortifications. Rothenburg was left poor and deserted in the Thirty Years' War, which is why it never developed much. Today it's seen a historic jewel that happens to be located on the Romatic Road - one of Germany's most popular tourist routes. In 2012 it was not Wagner's Festspielhaus Festival Theatre in Bayreuth, but the Margravine Princess Wilhelmine of Prussia's opera house that was added to UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites. This makes it the latest of the seven World Heritage Sites in Bavaria. The opera house, built in the 1740s, is regarded as one of the most beautifully preserved Baroque theatres in Europe. Nuremberg is the second largest city in Bavaria. Most people come in December to go to the Christkindlesmarkt, or Christ Child Market - one of the world's oldest and best known Christmas markets, visited by 2 million people each year. Mulled wine and Lebkuchen ginger bread you can get anywhere, but only here will you encounter the Christkind or Christ Child. It is not a myth but a way of life in the approximately 800 beer gardens, 600 breweries and 4000 taverns in Bavaria. Enjoy a traditional Bavarian "Brotzeit" meal - which directly translated means 'bread time'. This includes pretzels, meat and a relaxing beer in the company of friends. Author: Kerstin Schmidt