Britain has said Russia's military intelligence agency GRU was "almost certainly" behind a campaign of online attacks targeting political institutions, businesses, media and sport bodies around the world.  Attacks the UK has linked to Moscow include the 2017 BadRabbit ransomware attack that targeted an airport in Odessa and the Kyiv subway system, as well as media outlets in Russia, and the attempted hacking of the World Anti-Doping Agency in 2017 in Switzerland. Read more: Hack of German Foreign Ministry part of 'everyday spying' Other incidents include the hack of the US Democratic National Committee in 2016 and the theft of emails from a UK-based TV station in 2015. The British National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) also identified numerous hacking groups, including APT28, Pawn Storm, Sandworm, Fancy Bear and the Sofacy Group, as being associated with the GRU. 'Not the Wild West' Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that intelligence services in Canberra had also discovered evidence of "malicious cyber activity" orchestrated by Moscow. "The Russian military, and their intelligence arm 'the GRU', is responsible for this pattern of malicious cyber activity," the government said in a statement. "Cyberspace is not the Wild West. The international community — including Russia — has agreed that international law and norms of responsible state behavior apply in cyberspace." Read more: Cybersecurity: Why it's 'hard to protect yourself' online Over the summer, a security company hired by the Democratic National Convention tells the DNC that they have been successfully infiltrated by hackers for more than year. Two groups, known as Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear, both have links to the Russian government, the Washington Post reports. At the end of July, the FBI launches an investigation into whether or not the Russian government ordered the DNC hack. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov calls the move "paranoid." On the campaign trail, Republican nominee Donald Trump encourages Russia to "find the 30,000 emails that are missing." In a series of debates with rival Hillary Clinton, Trump casts doubt on Moscow's role in hacks that targeted the DNC and Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Wikileaks begins releasing slightly compromising emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Co-founder Julian Assange defends targeting Clinton, saying Trump's own statements are indictment enough of the Republican nominee. Over a period of months, Wikileaks consistently denies allegations that its sources are Russian. In a rare moment of complete agreement for the US' two biggest intelligence agencies, both the FBI and CIA come to the conclusion that the Russia government sought to influence the US election by promoting unfavorable coverage of Hillary Clinton. Trump, who has made no secret of his admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calls the intelligence reports "ridiculous." Anti-Clinton voices slam the probe as a distraction meant to discredit the now president-elect. This puts Trump at odds with congressional Republicans who call for an independent investigation. At the end of December, the Obama administration expels 35 Russian diplomats and shuts down two Russian intelligence compounds as the Kremlin continues to deny a roll in the summer's cyber attacks. President Putin eschews direct retaliation, saying he will wait to see how President-elect Trump's Russia policies play out. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher 'Reckless and indiscriminate' behavior "This pattern of behavior demonstrates their desire to operate without regard to international law or established norms and to do so with a feeling of impunity and without consequences," UK Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said Thursday in a statement.  "The GRU's actions are reckless and indiscriminate," he said. "They try to undermine and interfere in elections in other countries; they are even prepared to damage Russian companies and Russian citizens," adding the attacks had caused millions of British pounds in damage to national economies.  "Our message is clear — together with our allies, we will expose and respond to the GRU's attempts to undermine international stability." Tensions between the UK and Russia have been high since the poisoning of retired double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter earlier this year. The ex-military officer had been selling secrets to the British MI6 while working for the GRU. In September, the UK said two GRU operatives were behind the attack on Skripal, and released photographs and alleged aliases of the two men. Russia has denied any involvement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34N3v dj,es/ng (AP, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.