Modern bioenergy is expected to have the biggest growth in renewable resources between 2018 and 2023, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in its latest market forecast on Monday. The agency added this would underscore its critical role in ensuring a more secure and sustainable global energy system. "Modern bioenergy is the overlooked giant in the renewable energy field," said IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol. "Its share in the world's total renewables is about 50 percent today — in other words as much as hydro, wind, solar and all other renewables combined." Consumption on the rise IEA researchers were confident that renewables would continue their expansion in the next five years, covering 40 percent of global energy consumption growth. Renewables were predicted to be used more widely in the power sector, accounting for one-third of total electricity generation by 2023. "Because of weaker policy support and additional barriers to deployment, the use of renewables expands far more slowly in the transport and heat sectors," the report noted. It also pointed out that China was leading global growth in renewable energy as a result of policies to decarbonize all sectors and reduce harmful local air pollution.  The Asian nation is set to become the largest consumer of renewable energy, surpassing the European Union by 2023. According to the report, Brazil stands out for boasting the highest share of renewables in its energy mix, with almost 45 percent of total energy consumption being covered by renewables, mostly bioenergy and hydropower. Solar PC capacity is expected to rise by some 600 gigawatts, as much as twice Japan's total capacity. Wind, meanwhile, is forecast to expand by 60 percent over the next five years. Spurred by technological progress and cost cuts, offshore wind capacity is set to triple, with growth moving beyond Europe to Asia and North America. The Äänekoski bioproduct mill was inaugurated in October 2017, replacing an old pulp mill that had been running at the site since 1985. It's the biggest wood processing plant in the Northern Hemisphere and the largest investment in the history of the Finnish forest industry. It can produce up to 1.3 million tons of pulp per year as well as bioproducts like tall oil, bioelectricity and wood fuel. The mill produces more than double the amount of energy it needs to run. So once it reaches full capacity at the end of 2018, it's expected to generate 1.8 terawatts of power each year — or about 2.5 percent of Finland's electricity production. And all of this without using fossil fuels. Ninety percent of the wood used at the mill is certified and most of it is grown in sustainably managed Finnish forests. The mill's operator, Metsä Group, says 100 percent of the raw materials and side streams that reach the plant are also used in a resource-efficient way for products and bioenergy. Processes such as pulp bleaching have damaging consequences for the environment, but the mill operator says it has taken steps to reduce these impacts and limit the amount of landfill waste. Nevertheless, local traffic and noise pollution near the site are set to rise significantly: A total of 240 raw wood lorries and 70 flat wagons will soon be arriving at the mill each day. Pulp production requires huge amounts of water, but the mill's goal is to implement closed water cycles and an effective wastewater treatment process. Some environmental concerns have been raised, however, including questions about how the mill's thermal load could impact temperatures at nearby Lake Kuhnamo. In terms of air quality, the company says emissions will meet limit values set by the EU. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz