The European Union needs more time to prepare for the European Commission's proposal to abolish daylight savings time, Austria's Transport Minister Norbert Hofer said Monday. "If we aim to do this in 2019, as the Commission suggested, this will not be supported by the majority of member states", Hofer said at the start of an informal meeting of EU transport ministers in the Austrian city of Graz. Hofer said there was broad support for Austria's proposal that the switch to permanent winter or summer time should take place instead in 2021. Read more: Time change and its discontents "Three countries [Britain, Sweden and Poland] were skeptical and one was concerned that we could end up with a patchwork of different time zones," Hofer added. Last month, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker announced plans to stop changing Europe's clocks in October 2019. The Commission has said it wants each EU government to decide by April which time zone they want to be in permanently — whether they want to stay in summer time year-round or turn their clocks back one last time to permanent winter time. A recent EU-wide online poll found 84 percent of the 4.6 million participants supported abolishing the twice-yearly clock change, but this represented less than 1 percent of the bloc's population and most respondents were from Germany. This is what happened every in October and March — and might disappear in the future if the EU agrees on the measure: Zeitumstellung, or time change. Even if it feels horrible to give up an hour of sleep, keep in mind you'll get it back in the fall. Zeitumstellung at least gives a feeling of power — even if we are all bound by time, twice a year we act like we can change it. Many other German expressions integrate "Zeit," the word for time. A "Zeitschrift" — literally, time writing, is simply a magazine. Whether it includes political discourse or scantily clad women (now with nipples covered), theoretically a magazine should keep up with the times. While Zeitgeist can also be used in English, its direct translation — time spirit — conjures up images of Charles Dickens' Ghosts of Christmas Past and Present. Referring to the philosophical idea that each era is characterized by particular ways of thinking, the concept of Zeitgeist dates back to 18th-century philosophers and is often associated with Johann Gottfried Herder. Like time itself, food is elementary to the human existence. A "Mahlzeit" simply means "meal time," and can refer to breakfast, lunch or dinner. But it's also used to wish someone else the maximum amount of pleasure while eating. Next time you see a friend chomping down on a sandwich, you can say, "Mahlzeit!" It's often referred to as the happiest day of your life. In German, it's also a "high time" — a "Hochzeit." Who isn't high on adrenaline and emotion on that day of all days, on which your credit card debt reaches an all-time high? And for some impatient mother-in-laws, it certainly may be "high time" for that son to finally get hitched. It's "pickle time!" I'll have a BLT and some chips with that pickle, please... Actually the term "Sauregurkenzeit" originally, in the 18th century, referred to periods when little food was available. Now, it's used during the summer when everyone's on vacation, politics comes to a standstill, the streets are empty, and things get quiet. Pickle anyone? While "Genosse" means "comrade" and has a communist after-taste, a "Zeitgenosse" is anyone who lives at the same time you do: a contemporary. Just think: You are a "Zeitgenosse" of Angela Merkel, Heidi Klum and Cristiano Ronaldo. Your co-worker may not cheer, though, if you tell him he's your "time comrade." German often has a single word for a concept English needs a phrase to express. "Zeitgefühl" is your sense of time — something that suffers when you're concentrating on an important project, staring into the eyes of your sweetheart, or changing the clocks back for daylight savings. Your Zeitgefühl may say it's 8:00 am, but it's really only 7:00. So go back to sleep already! Author: Kate Müser Time needed to prepare Hofer said necessary technical preparations meant the proposed date to end changing the clocks needed to be moved to 2021. "For example, the airline industry tell us they need at least 18 months to prepare," Hofer said. "We must also be careful that we don't end up with a patchwork of time zones" across Europe, Hofer added, referring to the possibility of neighboring countries making different choices on whether to stay on summer or winter time permanently. This could be a particular issue for Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland given the uncertainty surrounding Britain's exit from the EU. The transport minister for Luxembourg, where nearly half the local workforce actually lives in Belgium, France or Germany, urged a continued harmonized system, saying it would be "catastrophic" if those countries were on different time zones. Read more: Summertime: What a joke! Danish Transport Minister Ole Birk Olesen said his country needed to have a full public debate on the issue and that it was not realistic to scrap clock changes next year. "There is not much awareness about the fact that it will have costs whatever we choose," Olesen said. Proponents of daylight saving say longer evening daylight hours in the summer help save energy and bolster productivity. But opponents argue that some people cannot easily adapt to the change and feel it has a short-term negative impact on their health. The transport ministers' next formal meeting is on December 3. The Astronomical Clock at Prague Town Hall from 1410 is a masterpiece of Gothic technology. According to legend, after completion the eyes of the builder were plucked out so that the watch would remain unique in the world. And it is unique! After nine months of restoration, the 12 apostles have once again delighted visitors to Prague's Old Town with their puppet play. Europe's most famous clock tower stands in London. Big Ben is only the nickname of the tower, because it is actually called Elizabeth Tower. Big Ben correctly refers to only the largest and heaviest of the five bells. The "Voice of Britain" tune played by the bells usually chimes every hour. The next few years, however, the bells remain silent, because the tower is being renovated. The world time clock on Alexanderplatz is of a more recent model. It was designed in East German times by industrial designer Erich John and in 1969 presented to the public. Since then it has become a popular meeting place for Berliners and tourists. At the top is a simplified model of our solar system and the cylinder below shows the time in the 24 time zones of the earth. A less well-known but all the more interesting clock is located in Berlin's Europa-Center. The 13 meter (43 ft.) high chronometer from 1982 covers three floors. Here you can watch the flow of time. The level of green liquid in the large spheres on the left shows the hours, the small spheres on the right the minutes. When it comes to clocks, Switzerland is a must. The Zytgogge, the clock tower from 1530, is the landmark of the capital Bern. On the hour tourists can always watch the game of figures depicting the golden hour beater, the cock and Chronos, the god of time. This masterpiece of the Renaissance inside Strasbourg Cathedral was also built by Swiss clockmakers. The figures start moving every day at 12.30 pm. The apostles and the four ages, personified as children, juveniles, adults and the elderly. They all pass by death. Cuckoo clocks alongside Bollenhut red bobble hat and cherry and chocolate gateau are the symbols of the Black Forest in southern Germany. So it is no wonder that the world's largest cuckoo clock can be found here in Triberg. The movement alone weighs six tons! The cuckoo is impressive - to the full and half hour the 4.5 meter big wooden bird calls from its window on the first floor. Two or three times a day, the glockenspiel figures make their big appearance at Munich City Hall. The life-size figures depict two events from Munich's city history: the wedding of Duke Wilhelm V. in 1568 and the cooper's dance depicting their defiance after a devastating plague epidemic. As historic as the glockenspiel is, it is operated with solar energy in a very modern way. Vienna's best-known clock adorns a small bridge between the two parts of the Anker-Hof building on the Hohe Markt square. The clock was designed by the Art Nouveau painter Franz Matsch. Within twelve hours twelve copper figures from Vienna's history cross the bridge. At 12 noon accompanied by music all the figures parade, among them Empress Maria Theresia and composer Joseph von Haydn. In Austria, this clock is also famous, the Clock Tower of Graz, located on the Schlossberg, visible from afar. Its special feature is that the hour and minute hands are reversed. Originally there was only one large hand for the hours, so that it could be seen from a distance. Later, the small minute hand was added. The Astronomical Clock on St Mark's Square displays not just the time, but also the current zodiac sign as well as the phases of the moon and the sun. Until the last restoration in 1998, the "Temperatore", the tower guard, lived in the tower with his family. Since 2006, the clock has been digitally monitored. This is not a real clock, but the dragon heads in the French city of Blois still keep time. Every half hour they appear at the windows and move in a terrifying way. Behind the façade is a museum that provides a glimpse into the history of magic, because the father of modern magic, Robert-Houdin, was once born in Blois. Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg lw/msh (AFP, dpa, Reuters)