Protests rocked Pakistan's major cities on Wednesday after the death sentence of a Christian woman, Asia Bibi, on blasphemy charges was overturned by the country's Supreme Court. The protests are being led by hard-line Muslim clerics and ultrareligious Pakistani political parties like Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP). The Pakistani government has deployed security forces to confront the protesters who are clashing with police, blocking roads with burning tires and damaging government properties. Residents in the capital, Islamabad, lined up at gas stations, fearing prolonged protests may hamper supply in the coming days. Read more: Police arrest dozens of Christians in Pakistan In the eastern city of Lahore, TLP supporters began clashing with police immediately after the ruling. The Pakistani newspaper Dawn reported that a major railway line in Punjab province was blocked on Wednesday afternoon by TLP protesters, who said traffic will "remain blocked until Asia Bibi is hanged." Dawn also reported that the TLP threatened to "block" the entire southern metropolis of Karachi, after closing off a major roadway in the city. So far, there are no reports of death or injury resulting from the nationwide protests. In 2009, Asia Bibi was accused of insulting the Prophet Muhammad while she was working in a field in Punjab's Sheikhupura district. The Muslim women who were working with Bibi objected to her fetching water, saying that as a non-Muslim she was not allowed to touch the water bowl. The women then complained to a local cleric and leveled blasphemy charges against Bibi. According to local media, the argument in the field led to a mob attack on Bibi's house. Later, police took Bibi into custody and launched an investigation into the blasphemy accusations. Blasphemy is a sensitive issue in Pakistan, where 97 percent of the population is Muslim. The blasphemy law was introduced by General Zia-ul-Haq, a military dictator, in the 1980s. Activists say they are often implemented in cases that have little to do with blasphemy and are used to settle petty disputes and personal vendettas. Christians, Hindus and Ahmadis — a minority Islamic sect — are often victimized as a result. In 2010, a lower court convicted Bibi of blasphemy. Although the defense lawyer argued that the blasphemy allegations were made to settle personal scores, the court sentenced Bibi to death by hanging. Bibi's family has been living under constant fear since 2010. Her husband, Ashiq Masih (R), says he has been fighting a battle for his wife's freedom ever since. In 2010, Salman Taseer (R), the then governor of Punjab province, backed Bibi and demanded amendments in the blasphemy laws. Taseer's anti-blasphemy law position angered extremists. In 2011, Taseer was gunned down by his own bodyguard in Islamabad. The same year, Shahbaz Bhatti, the then minister for minorities and a prominent blasphemy law critic, was also assassinated by unidentified gunmen. After Taseer's murder, Qadri became a hero for Pakistani Islamists. Qadri was showered with rose petals by right-wing groups as he was taken to jail by the authorities. Qadri was sent to the gallows in 2016. Thousands of people – mostly supporters of Islamic groups – attended Qadri's funeral. Local media reported that Qadri's supporters built a shrine after his death to honor him. After the killings of blasphemy law critics, many lawyers refused to take up Bibi's case in the higher courts. In 2014, the Lahore High Court upheld her death sentence. Pakistan's top court, the Supreme Court, was scheduled to hear Bibi's appeal against the conviction in 2016, but one judge refused to be a part of the judicial bench, citing personal reasons. According to the American Centre for Law and Justice, at least 40 Pakistanis were sentenced to death on blasphemy charges in 2016. The law is often used to target religious minorities and secular Muslims. Although there hasn't been any legal execution under the blasphemy law, there have been instances where angry mobs have lynched alleged blasphemers. Pakistan's Christians and other religious minorities complain of legal and social discrimination in their country. In the past few years, many Christians and Hindus have been brutally murdered over unproven blasphemy allegations. Religious extremists in Pakistan, particularly the Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) group, have warned the authorities against reversing Bibi's blasphemy verdict. The country's Christian minority fears that if the judges decide to reverse the death sentence, they could face a violent backlash from the country's hardline Islamic groups. Rights groups and Western governments demand a fair trial in Bibi's case. In 2015, Bibi's daughter met with Pope Francis, who offered prayers for her mother at the Vatican. In 2014, Amnesty International dubbed the Lahore High Court's verdict against Bibi a "grave injustice." The American Centre for Law and Justice also condemned Bibi's sentence and urged Islamabad to protect religious minorities. Author: Onkar Singh Janoti Islamists 'will not compromise' "We will embrace death but will not compromise on our stance [against Bibi]," Pir Ejaz Shah, a TLP spokesman, told DW on Wednesday after the ruling. The TLP's leadership also called for the death of Pakistani Chief Justice Saqib Nasir and two other judges on the panel that acquitted Bibi. Read more: Pakistan Christian teen detained over 'Koran burning' Asia Bibi had been living on death row since 2010, when she was sentenced to death by hanging after her neighbors accused her of insulting Islam. Pakistan's Islamists fear the overturned sentence will spark widespread changes to blasphemy laws in the country. Insulting Islam is punishable by death in Pakistan, and Islamist parties draw much of their power from the enforcement of blasphemy laws. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2udu6 wr/sri (dpa, Reuters, Dawn)