Perhaps the most astonishing characteristic of the Mexican films that have been making it onto international screens since the turn of the century is that they appear to effortlessly merge art house style with box office success: movie-goers and film critics alike enjoy films like The Shape of Water, Babel and Pan's Labyrinth. Mexican directors, script writers and actors have made a name for themselves on screens worldwide these past 18 years. They are regularly invited to the top film festivals, where they have received different awards. Mexican movies are popular and successful around the world. The rebirth of Mexican cinema that started out in the 1990s is a movement that was labeled Nuevo Cine Mexicano, or New Mexican Cinema. A few Mexican movies had made an impression at film festivals and did well at national box offices during that decade, but what followed after the turn of the century was quite remarkable. The last time the world had an eye on Mexico as a filmmaking nation was after World War II, when Spain's Luis Bunuel, the master of surrealist film, made a splash with his works from his new home in Mexican exile. Luis Bunuel on set Following in Bunuel's footsteps Inarritu, Cuaron und del Toro build on Bunuel to a point. They, too, offer the audience a magic union of stark realism and surrealist elements. Mexico's new filmmakers are worthy successors of the great Spanish-born Bunuel, following in the footsteps of the iconic international movie director. Director Guillermo del Toro and his movie, "The Shape of Water," was the evening's big winner. The film had already taken home the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival last year before being voted best picture by the Academy. Del Toro also won the Oscar for best director. Nominated in 13 categories, "The Shape of Water" took home four awards. Along with best picture and best director, composer Alexandre Desplat's original score and the film's spectacular production design was also honored with an Academy Award. Sally Hawkins and Octavia Spencer (picture) were both nominated as best lead and supporting actresses, but didn't make the final cut. "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" had the second largest number of Oscar nods and was seen as a favorite ahead of the awards ceremony. At the end of the night, the film took home just two awards, including best actress, which went to Frances McDormand. Sam Rockwell, who played a racist policeman in a small American city opposite Frances McDormand in "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" took home best supporting actor. The drama follows a mother confronting the death of her daughter. Gary Oldman was awarded best actor for his performance portraying Winston Churchill in "The Darkest Hour." In the film, the British actor is almost unrecognizable as an overweight and aging Churchill. For her work portraying the mother of the controversial figure skater Tonya Harding in "I, Tonya," Allison Janney received the Oscar for best supporting actress. Janney is best known for her supporting roles and is a seven-time Primetime Emmy Award winner for her television work. It was impossible to get around the ongoing debate around sexual harassment in the industry on Oscars night. Host Jimmy Kimmel addressed the #MeToo and Time's Up movements as well gender inequality in Hollywood, and also included a word on disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein. There was one winner from Germany at the evening's event. Gerd Nefzer (right), together with his colleagues John Nelson, Paul Lambert and Richard R. Hoover (from left to right), took home the golden statue for best visual effects for their work on the science-fiction film "Blade Runner 2049." Jordan Peele made history as the first Black American in Oscar history to win for best original screenplay. Peele, who's also an actor and comedian, received the award for his directorial debut, the horror-comedy "Get Out." The other Oscar in the screenplay category went to 90-year-old James Ivory for his work on the drama "Call Me By Your Name." The story of a young man discovering his homosexuality was adapted by Ivory from André Aciman's novel of the same name. The Chilean film "A Fantastic Woman" was awarded an Oscar for the best foreign language film. Director Sebastián Lelio and transgender actress and singer Danila Vega received the award for the film which was also a hit at the 2017 Berlin International Film Festival, where it won the Silver Bear for best screenplay. This year's Oscar in the category for documentaries also took up a trendy topic: the doping scandal in Russia. Director Bryan Fogel (right) and producer Dan Cogan grabbed the Academy Award for their film "Icarus." Author: Jochen Kürten (ct) 