Responding to a blistering speech by US Vice President Mike Pence, Beijing has called on Washington to stop "groundlessly accusing" China of electoral meddling. The appeal comes after Pence accused China of using "covert actors, front groups and propaganda outlets" to sway American voters ahead of the US midterm elections in November. On Friday, China's Foreign Ministry rejected the claims as "unwarranted" and "ridiculous." Pence "made unwarranted accusations against China's domestic and foreign policies and slandered China by claiming that China meddles in US internal affairs and election," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said in a statement. "This is nothing but speaking on hearsay evidence, confusing right and wrong and creating something out of thin air," she said. "We have no interest in meddling in US internal affairs and elections." Read more: What China could do to counter US tariffs Pence: China wants a 'different American president' Speaking at a Washington think tank on Thursday, Pence said Beijing was engaged in an "unprecedented effort" to influence American voters. The escalation comes as the US and China face off on tariffs and China's naval claims. "China wants a different American president," Pence said in his address at the Hudson Institute. The targeted efforts allegedly focus on "industries and states that would play an important role" come November. "By one estimate, more than 80 percent of US counties targeted by China voted for President Trump and I [sic] in 2016," Pence said. "Now, China wants to turn these voters against our administration." Read more: China vows 'consequences' over US sanctions on Russian arms purchase Russia's effort 'pales in comparison' Since wining the 2016 vote, Trump has been hounded by claims that Russia meddled in the election, working in his favor. Several law enforcement agencies have confirmed the claims, despite Russia's denial. On Thursday, however, Pence indicated that China's alleged effort was on a much bigger scale. "As a senior career member of our intelligence community recently told me just this week, what the Russians are doing pales in comparison to what China is doing across this country and the American people deserve to know," he said. US President Donald Trump is known for his polarizing statements, not least when it comes to China. Shortly after announcing his presidential bid in 2016, Trump told an American broadcaster: "I love China." But his remarks regarding Beijing haven't always been so positive. DW examines the best quotes uttered by the US president concerning the People's Republic of China. Trump has used particularly strong language to describe US-China relations."We can't continue to allow China to rape our country, and that's what they're doing. It's the greatest theft in the history of the world," he told a rally during his presidential campaign. In 2011, Trump claimed "China is raping this country" during a tour of a defense manufacturer in New Hampshire, local media reported. "He then went into the history of China and Korea. Not North Korea, Korea. And you know, you’re talking about thousands of years ... and many wars. And Korea actually used to be a part of China," Trump told the Wall Street Journal in April after meeting China's Xi Jinping. The remark prompted concern in South Korea, prompting China's foreign ministry to say: "There is nothing ... to worry about." For Trump, fast food might be enough. "I beat the people from China. I win against China. You can win against China if you're smart. But our people don't have a clue. We give state dinners to the heads of China. I said, 'why are you doing state dinners for them? They're ripping us left and right. Just take them to McDonald's and go back to the negotiating table,'" Trump said at a 2015 rally. In a fabled 2011 interview with China's state broadcaster Xinhua, Trump allegedly rattled off 20 books he'd read about China. "I've read hundreds of books about China over the decades. I know the Chinese. I've made a lot of money with the Chinese. I understand the Chinese mind," he allegedly said. But some have said the interview never happened. The only evidence survives on an LA Times blog post. Trump has often taken to his preferred social media platform to declare foreign policy objectives and decry his apparent foes. In 2012, he tackled the subject of climate change by accusing Beijing of fabricating the idea to hurt US economic interests. "The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non-competitive," Trump said. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Read more: Trump approves sanctions for foreign meddling in US election "The Chinese Communist Party is rewarding or coercing American businesses, movie studios, universities, think tanks, scholars, journalists and local, state, and federal officials," he added. Pence also urged Google to immediately end development of its Dragonfly app for China that would make it easier to track someone's internet searches. The app "will strengthen Communist Party censorship and compromise the privacy of Chinese customers." Last week, Trump accused China of electoral interference at the UN and cited a paid advertising insert by China Daily, an entity linked with the Chinese government, republished in The Des Moines Register in Iowa. The four-page insert deals with the effects of Trump's trade policies. dj/cmk (AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.