A German university professor is challenging the library fine system in the state of North Rhine Westphalia after being landed with a €2,250 bill for the late return of dozens of books. Professor Gina Kästele, who lectures at the Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences in the western city of Mönchengladbach, went to court on Friday to challenge the penalty which was imposed after she returned the books nearly six weeks late. Kästele's lawyer claims the charge — made up of €1,000 ($1,153) in library book fines and a further €1,250 in administration fees — was disproportionately high. Read more: Sensational archaeological find is likely Germany's oldest library The university allows professors to keep books for research purposes for long periods without a fee but an extension must be applied for at the end of the academic year, according to several German media outlets. The plaintiff borrowed 50 books for her scientific work from the university library at the beginning of the 2015 summer semester. The Duchess Anna Amalia Library in Weimar got its present name in 1991. It had previously been called simply the "Herzogliche Bibliothek" ("The Ducal Library") for 300 years. The building with its famous rococo hall (above) was partially destroyed in a fire, but it reopened on October 24, 2007. Don't worry if you don't have a student card, the library of the University of Technology in Delft, the Netherlands is worth of visiting even without it. The sloping, grass-grown top of the building is particularly striking, and the 42-metre-high cone that pierces the building in the middle hides four floors full of books. British newspaper "The Daily Telegraph" included the Biblioteca Joanina in Coimbra, Portugal in the 2013 list of the most spectacular libraries in the world. It bears the name of the Portuguese king John V, who commissioned its construction. All bookshelves are made of tulipwood and ebony, and the place is now part of the Faculty of Law. The Library of Alexandria was the most famous library in the world before it was destroyed in flames about 2,000 years ago. It is said to have contained the whole knowledge of the then world on about 490,000 papyrus rolls. The new library of Alexandria, which continues the tradition, opened in 2002. Its final cost? More than 220 million dollars (€187 m.). Some of the specimens in possession of the Abbey library of Saint Gall in St. Gallen, Switzerland are over 1,300 years old, and visitors can see the monastery plan, the oldest building plan in Europe, or an Egyptian mummy. The Büchersaal ("The Book Hall," above) has been on the UNESCO World Heritage list since 1983. Pay a visit to the Library of Congress whenever you are in Washington, D. C. The library was founded in 1800 but was burnt down by the British just 14 years later. Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States, sold about 6,500 books from his private collection to fund the $24,000 restoration. The main reading room pictured above was built in the Neo-Renaissance style. The double-storey "Long Room" in the old Trinity College Library in Dublin is 64 meters long and 12 meters wide. But the space wasn't always as impressive as it is today. Its flat, plaster ceiling was removed in 1858 and substituted by a new roof made of oak. With an archive of more than 30 million books and other media, the National Library of China is one of the seven largest libraries in the world. It was built as the "Capital Library" in 1809 and later renamed the "Beijing Library" in 1928 after the People's Republic of China was established. Its current name was approved by the state in 1998. Books returned 40 days too late The books were, therefore, due back at the start of the summer recess at the end of July, but Kästele didn't return them until September. The university says the library sent several reminders that the books were overdue, which Kästele's lawyer insists she didn't see because she was on holiday. Initially the library fined the plaintiff €2 per book, and then €5. After 30 days, the fine rose to €20 per book. In addition, after such a long period administrative fees of €25 for each book were applied. Read more: US Library of Congress to stop archiving all tweets The German news agency Deutsche Presse-Agentur said the fee structure was set by the state government in 2005. Kästele is also arguing that because the university system in Germany has since been reformed, the regulations no longer apply. If Kästele were to win her case, DPA said the ruling could have consequences for all German university libraries. A university representative acknowledged that the fine was not an accurate calculation of the library's expenses for late returns. Even so, the presiding judge said that fines of this kind were allowed to be issued as a deterrence, to ensure others return the books on time. The court is expected to issue a decision in the coming weeks. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30zMR Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.