Singapore Airlines is all set to recapture the crown for the world's longest non-stop commercial flight when its Flight SQ22 takes off for New York from Singapore later Thursday. The airline is relaunching the service five years after it abandoned it because high oil prices made the route unprofitable. The 16,700-kilometer (10,400 mile) journey between the Asian hub and the Big Apple will take just under 19 hours, topping the existing long-haul flights by a distance. Qatar Airways holds the current record for the world's longest non-stop flight — a 17-hour 40-minute marathon journey from Doha to Auckland. Qantas Airlines launched a 17-hour non-stop service between Perth and London — a distance of nearly 15,000 kilometers — earlier this year. Singapore Airlines will use the long-range Airbus A350-900ULR on the route. Airbus says the aircraft, which is capable of flying over 20 hours non-stop, is designed to use less fuel. The plane also boasts of spacious "elegantly-lit" interiors, higher-than-normal ceilings and wider seats aimed at reducing jet lag. No economy class Singapore Airlines will not be offering economy class bookings on the route to avoid passengers being crammed. Its aircraft is configured to carry 161 passengers: 67 in business class and 94 in premium economy. On the Singapore Airlines website, one-way premium economy tickets were going for close to 3,000 Singapore dollars (€1,900, $2,200) and business for 7,900 Singapore dollars. The flight will have two pilots, a special "wellness" menu comprising organic dishes, and over 1,200 hours of audio-visual entertainment to choose from. "Research has shown that hydration and food intake are important factors (to consider), such as avoiding foods that cause gas or bloating as well as excessive alcohol," said Rhenu Bhuller, a healthcare expert at consultancy Frost & Sullivan. "The biggest concern is Deep Vein Thrombosis from a combination of sitting for too long and also from dehydration," said Gail Cross, an associate consultant at the National University Hospital in Singapore. ap/kms (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.