On Saturday, the body of Bulgarian television journalist Viktoria Marinova was found in the city of Ruse, near the Danube River. She had been robbed, raped and murdered. Several days prior, Marinova had aired an interview on local Bulgarian television station TVN with two journalists from online investigative website Bivol.bg who had investigated and exposed corruption and the embezzlement of European Union funds in the country. Their findings had already been known for several weeks, but many people nevertheless immediately drew a connection between Marinova's murder and the graft revelations. It's hardly a surprising conclusion. In its 2018 report, Reporters without Borders placed Bulgaria 111th in the world in terms of press freedom — the lowest ranking in the EU and the entire Balkan region. Now, international media organizations including the Association of European Journalists, as well as the EU and United Nations, are expressing grave concern over Marinova's murder and demanding a swift investigation into her death. Germany arrests murder suspect Marinova's death has focused attention on the reporting by Bivol.bg. The country's prosecutor general, Sotir Tsatsarov, has announced that the authorities are now looking into money laundering and have frozen some €14 million ($16 million) in funds. Tsatsarov did not, however, say which individuals are under investigation. Read more: 1 out of 2 writers in Germany report personal attacks, PEN study finds German journalist and Bulgaria expert Frank Stier believes that in future the country will be more thoroughly scrutinized before EU funds are distributed. "There is really nothing good about a gruesome murder like this," he said. "But Ms. Marinova's murder has led the European Commission to more closely examine Bivol.bg's findings, and to urge Bulgaria's authorities to shed more light on the case." The 30-year-old TV presenter had recently hosted investigative journalists working on alleged corruption involving European Union funds. She was brutally murdered in the northern Bulgarian town of Ruse in October. The 60-year-old author, Washington Post columnist and former editor-in-chief of Al Arab News Channel was last seen walking into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October to get papers to verify his divorce. His fiancee waited outside for 11 hours, and she says he never came out. Khashoggi had previously said he believed the Saudi leadership wanted to kill him. An ex-police officer was named as the killer of investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his partner Martina Kusnirova in February. The murders sparked mass protests and led to the resignation of the prime minister. Kuciak had been investigating ties between government officials and the Italian mafia. Daphne Caruana Galizia, an investigative journalist who linked Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat to the Panama Papers scandal, was killed when a bomb destroyed her car in October 2017. Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo had reported the killing of 10 Rohingya Muslim villagers. They were arrested in December 2017 after being invited to meet police for dinner in Yangon. In September, after 39 court appearances and 265 days in detention, they were jailed for seven years for breaching the 1923 Official Secrets Act. After Afghanistan and Syria, Mexico is the most dangerous nation for journalists. There were 14 journalists killed in 2017 and 10 more have lost their lives this year. Mario Gomezk, a 35-year-old correspondent, was shot dead by armed men as he left his home in Chiapas in September. He had reportedly received death threats after investigating corruption among state officials. TV news reporter Samim Faramarz was killed with his cameraman Ramiz Ahmadi when they were reporting from the scene of an explosion in the west of Kabul in September. The car bomb went off just meters from where they were just finishing a live report. Afghanistan remains the deadliest place in the world to be a journalist. A major issue in Brazil's election campaign was corruption. Radio journalist Marlon de Carvalho Araujo focused on reporting graft, and he wrote on corruption involving officials at various levels of the Bahia regional administration. In August, four gunmen burst into his home in the early hours and shot him dead. Kashmir journalist Shujaat Bukhari was shot dead outside his newspaper office in Srinagar in June. A contributor to DW, he advocated a peaceful resolution to the conflict between India and Pakistan over the mountainous region. Editor Wendi Winters, her assistant Robert Hiaasen, writer Gerald Fischman, reporter John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith died when a gunman shot through the glass door into their office in June. The man, who had filed a defamation lawsuit against the paper, was arrested at the scene and charged with their murders. Author: Jane Mcintosh On Tuesday, German police arrested a 21-year-old Bulgarian suspect in connection to Marinova's murder. Mounting evidence seems to suggest Marinova fell victim to a spontaneous attack and sexual assault, rather than being deliberately targeted for her work as journalist. Western media quick to draw conclusions Daniel Kaddik, who heads the Sofia office of the Friedrich Naumann Foundation, a nongovernmental organization affiliated with Germany's business-friendly Free Democratic Party, believes Marinova's murder has shed light on the inner workings of the Bulgarian state, and concedes that the case looks suspicious. "Given Bulgaria's serious problems with press freedom and democracy, it is understandably being asked whether Marinova's murder could have been linked to her work as a journalist," Kaddik said. "What I find dangerous, however, is that many Western media outlets are already fully convinced the crime had something to do with her job." Read more:After Slovakia's Jan Kuciak, killing journalists now 'within realm of possibility' The question that should now be asked, he believes, is whether "the Western media insisting this was a deliberate murder could be counterproductive in Bulgaria's fight for more press freedom and against corruption?" Journalist Michael Martens, who writes for the German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and is also very familiar with Bulgaria's media landscape, shares Kaddik's view, urging "unbiased journalists" on Twitter to consider both scenarios in their reporting. Keeping cautious The exact details of Marinova's tragic death are yet to be established. But whatever is ultimately revealed, her case has caused the media to re-examine the dismal state of press freedom and rampant corruption in Bulgaria, as well as the lack of action from the authorities in Brussels when it comes to addressing it. At the same time, stressed journalist Frank Stier, it is important that the press be careful in jumping to conclusions. "Claims that prematurely linked the murder of Ms. Marinova to her work, as were made by the media and international organizations like the European Commission and even the UN, were akin to an avalanche," he said. "I think the media should have been more cautious in its reporting."