Authorities in Ecuador are investigating the alleged theft of more than 100 giant tortoise hatchlings from a breeding center in the Galapagos Islands. "They were all taken at once — 123 in all. It was a robbery," local lawmaker Washington Paredes told the Agence France-Presse news agency. At the time of their disappearance the babies were being housed at the Arnaldo Tupiza Center facility on Isabela, the largest island in the Pacific Ocean archipelago. The site is staffed by park rangers, volunteers and security officers, but Paredes said there are no cameras or light sensors. "The tortoises are just there. If somebody wants to go in by night and steal, they can," he said. Read more: Scientists discover new species of giant tortoise The Galapagos prosecutor's office said Friday it had opened an investigation and was working to find those responsible. There are harsh penalties for environment-related crimes in Ecuador, with perpetrators facing more than 10 years in prison. This aerial view of Isla Sombrero Chino reveals the Galápagos' geological origins. Up to 5 million years ago, magma bubbling up from a hotspot in the Earth's crust cooled and hardened into these remote islands. They lie nearly 1,000 kilometers (621 miles) off the Ecuadorian mainland in South America. Secluded by their distance from other lands, plants and animals on the islands evolved independently - meaning the Galápagos are rich in endemic species, or those that can be found nowhere else on earth. This lava cactus is one, perfectly adapted to thrive on inhospitable lava fields where very few other organisms survive. One of the most unusual of the archipelago's endemic speces is the marine iguana - the only lizard in the world that makes a life foraging in seawater. They graze on algae, and can dive up to 9 meters deep. But the marine iguana is at risk from human-introduced pathogens - as well as pigs, dogs and cats, which were brought to the islands by people and, given the chance, will feast on iguana eggs. Red rock crabs are not found exclusively on the Galápagos Islands. But the local population has a unique adaptation: The crabs have been observed feeding on ticks from the islands' marine iguanas, in a symbiotic relationship thought to benefit both lizard and crustacean. Frigatebirds are found across the tropics, favoring remote islands where they breed in colonies of up to 5,000 birds. A common sight on the Galapagos Islands, they can fly thousands of kilometers at a time. Yet one of the archipelago's two frigatebird species - the magnificent frigatebird - is now recognized as genetically distinct from relatives elsewhere. Giant tortoises survive only on two remote archipelagos, the Galápagos and Aldabra in the Indian Ocean. The lumbering reptiles can live for more than 100 years. Hunting reduced Galápagos tortoise numbers from around 250,000 in the 16th century to just 3,000 in the 1970s. Conservation efforts have seen populations rebound, and 20,000 now inhabit in the islands. Hundreds of thousands of tourists visit the Galápagos each year. But careful steps are taken to minimize their impact on biodiversity. Cruise ships anchor offshore, and visitors can only get on to the islands by dinghy. They're not allowed to bring food, or touch local wildlife. Most Galápagos animals have no fear of humans, because they evolved without exposure to predators. Galápagos sea lions breed exclusively on the remote archipelago and on Isla de la Plata, just off the Ecuadorian mainland. Their loud bark, playful nature and agile grace in the water make these gregarious animals a favorite with tourists. They have little fear of humans - but once in the water must take care not to end up as lunch for sharks or orcas. Author: Nils Zimmermann Biodiversity haven The volcanic archipelago, about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) off the coast of Ecuador, was declared a Natural World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1978. It is home to a diverse array of plants and animals that are found nowhere else on the planet. Charles Darwin famously visited the Galapagos in 1835, and the creatures he observed there later inspired his theory of evolution and natural selection. There are 12 different species of the iconic giant tortoise on the islands. According to the Environment Ministry, the missing babies belonged to the Chelonoidis vicina and Chelonoidis guntheri varieties, both of which are classified as endangered. A Galapagos tortoise species became extinct in 2012 when an individual named Lonesome George, the last of his kind, died without producing any offspring. Tortoise breeding programs have been set up on several of the islands in recent decades as part of an effort to boost numbers and ensure the species' survival. Read more: Galapagos fights temptation of mass tourism Breeding programs in the Galapagos aim to increase the population of endemic giant tortoises nm/cmk (AFP, EFE, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.