Hollywood: The land of dreams. Here, careers can really take off. Actors ascend like comets, soaring to unimaginable heights. But the reverse is equally possible: Bottomless descent, when the emotions are even more intense. It's similar in the music industry where global audiences looking to be entertained experience a few happy ascents and a lot of deeply sad descents every few years. The ups and downs of show business A Star is Born links these two worlds of film and music on the big screen. It is an eternal story about the intoxicating feelings of a meteoric rise and the dismays of a fall. Based on classic Hollywood material from the 1930s, A Star is Born has been remade a couple of times already, featuring in each new version, of course, the stars of the time. This time, Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper are in the spotlight. When A Star is Born recently celebrated its world premiere at the Venice Film Festival, there was a lot of commotion as pop icon Lady Gaga traveled by water taxi to the Lido. Fans screeched and the film world stared on a bit jealous; the not-so-sober atmosphere in time-honored Venice was disrupted by a musician stealing the show from all the filmmakers. Lady Gaga cheered at the Lido She certainly deserved the shower of affection, although the many fans and onlookers could not have known just how much when they welcomed her. The world premiere of the film by Bradley Cooper, who had not only been in the director's seat for the first time but also took on the male lead, later flickered across the big screen of the festival cinema. That's when everyone realized: Here is an actress to be discovered. Lady Gaga had done a fantastic job. Read more: Venice film festival slammed for 'toxic masculinity' Much of the film's success relies on the co-stars' chemistry The story that Cooper tells in his debut differs only slightly from the stories of the earlier versions of the film that was first made in 1937 and remade in 1976 as a rock musical Cooper plays successful country singer Jackson Maine, who fills the large music arenas and has audiences at his feet. Yet he suspects that everything is finite — especially because he has a big problem he carries with him. Alcohol. Jackson drowns his loneliness and the emptiness he feels at the center of the entertainment business in liquor. A Cinderella story: The eternal rags-to-riches One day, Jackson discovers a singer on stage in a small club. She is actually a waiter who dares every now and then to sing a few songs in front of the audience. Jackson Maine is excited. He recognizes the tremendous talent of this reserved girl. And not only that: He falls in love with her. The love is reciprocated. Of course, A Star is Born is not only about pure happiness. It is rather the story of two artists with artistic temperaments whose careers intersect. One enters the stage just as the other is leaving. It is at this very juncture that the two get to know each other. What follows is a story Hollywood has already told several times. Beginning in the early 1930s, when films with sound were just beginning to appear. At that time, there was still a focus on acting; the film was titled What Price Hollywood? Janet Gaynor, Fredric March and Adolphe Menjou: The original "A Star is Born" from 1937 was the story of two actors Five years later, directors William A. Wellmann and Jack Conway staged the story for the first time under the title A Star is Born with Janet Gaynor and Frederic March. That worked splendidly — at the box office and with critics, as it took home seven Oscar nominations. (Wellmann then won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay.) Judy Garland wrote film history with A Star is Born A 1954 version of A Star is Born, directed by George Cukor, became a big hit, especially because the pairing of Judy Garland and James Mason harmonized so splendidly. Again the movie was showered with Oscar nominations. At the ceremony, the film went out empty-handed then as favorite Garland was beaten out by Grace Kelly. That did not detract from the film's long-standing fame. Again two decades later, the material was re-made. Although the 1976 take on A Star is Born, with Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson was prominently featured and could have won an Oscar for Best Song, experts agreed that the 1950s film was far better. Judy Garland in "A Star is Born," 1954 Cooper does his job well, Lady Gaga better The latest version of the movie features the Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper duo. After its premiere at the Lido, reviews were generally positive. As an actor, Cooper was certified as a singing talent, while for his directorial work, he was reproached for putting his own role a bit poorly in the foreground. But Lady Gaga was a discovery. Her first movie lead was hailed triumphantly. Praise from which the film can probably profit. As the chemistry between the two main actors was considered to be consistent, nothing seems to be standing in the way of the success of this fourth (original) version of A Star is Born at the box office. After further festival invitations in Canada, Russia and Switzerland, A Star is Born debuts in Germany on October 4, and on October 5 in the US. An Oscar favorite, there are already bets that there will be at least one nomination for Lady Gaga. A star is, indeed, born. Without any previous announcement or marketing, and exclusively for streaming, the power couple released a surprise collaborative album, Everything is Love. While the ups and downs of Jay-Z's and Beyoncé's marriage were publicly revealed through previous solo albums, the fact that the Carters ended up doing a joint work is perhaps not as surprising as these other legendary duos... An eccentric pop star and an aging crooner — why not! In 2014, they sang together on an album of jazz standards, including the song "Cheek to Cheek." Listeners who thought that Lady Gaga's talent was restricted to producing electropop hits à la "Poker Face" discovered that she was a versatile singer. The pope of gothic rock and a singing disco ball: How is that supposed to work together? If the duet "Where the Wild Roses Grow" is any indication, amazingly well. Morbid, beautiful, lyrical, the song tells the story of a man who murders his lover. Kylie makes an appearance in the video as one of the most exquisite water corpses in pop music history. A powerful voice meets a rock'n'roll legend: In 2008, director Martin Scorsese brought Aguilera and the Stones together for the concert film Shine a Light. The song "Live With Me" is an explosive duet in which Mick Jagger and the pop diva give it all they've got. Stones guitarist Keith Richards claimed that he didn't recognize the lady on stage but after that hit, that should have been rectified. Alt-rocker Udo Lindenberg took to the stage for his live album, titled MTV Unplugged - Live from the Hotel Atlantic, and brought this pop prodigy along with him. The already-successful songwriter Clueso joined Lindenberg for a joint interpretation of Lindenberg's song "Cello.2 It is one of the most beautiful recordings on the album. An opera diva alongside one of the most dazzling personalities in rock and pop history. Freddie Mercury's characteristic vocals met classical soprano. The song "Barcelona" was recorded in 1987. Mercury was fascinated by the Caballé at that time and the two became close friends. They performed the song twice on stage. In "Sweet Summer Wine," a mysterious beauty, performed by Nancy, beguiles the rich stranger with a bowl of strawberries, cherries and alcohol. Lee Hazlewood had initially intended the song as a B-side. But after it went off the charts, they produced an entire album in collaboration, titled Nancy & Lee. "Something Stupid" is a love song that gets under your skin. It sounds weird, as it's sung by father and daughter, but the duet became one of the most famous of all time. Maybe it was so good because the two of them did not take the song seriously, but kept making faxes during the recordings, a move that made the sound engineers pale. A one-hit wonder collaboration that was worthwhile for both of them: "Don't Go Breaking My Heart," released in 1970, is a light, cheesy love duet that offered the perfect soundtrack to everyone who'd fallen in love. In 1969 the duet "Je t'aime... moi non plus," sung by French enfant terrible Serge Gainsbourg and British actor Jane Birkin, triggered strong emotions. Even without understanding French, the suggestive and breathy style of singing led it to being banned from radio in many countries. Yet millions of copies of the "forbidden fruit" single were sold. This father-daughter duet might seem creepy to some: Natalie re-recorded her father's song "Unforgettable" in 1991, nearly 26 years after his death, singing on his original recordings. Natalie's duet with her "resurrected" late father was a smash hit: It sold 14 million copies and won seven Grammys. How could this miraculous meeting ever have taken place? Well, in 2000 Karel Gott had released a German cover version of the 80s hit "Forever Young." The German gangster rapper was a fan of the pop hit and wanted to re-record it, this time as a duet with the Czech pop star. Rap meets Schlager. And "Forever Young" cracked the top five of the charts in 2002. THE German dumbbell couple of the 70s; the two covered the hit from the musical Grease with John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John, "You're The One That I Want." The German version had nothing to do with disco, glamour and dance, though: Hallervorden and Feddersen squatted in the bathtub, played with rubber duckies and sang: "The bath is full, Hu Hu Hu." Author: Silke Wünsch (eg/ct) 