Alberto Fujimori has been taken to a hospital, just hours after the country's top court annulled a pardon granted to the ex-president last year that protected him from prosecution for human rights crimes.  Earlier Wednesday, Supreme Court Judge Hugo Nunez ruled that Fujimori was to serve out the remainder of his 25-year prison sentence because the pardon he received in December was incompatible with the American Convention on Human Rights, to which Peru is a signatory. Keiko Fujimori denounced the ruling against her father, Alberto Fujimori "This decision is inhuman, it's unjust," Fujimori's daughter, opposition politician Keiko Fujimori, said after the court ordered her father back to jail. Miguel Perez, the lawyer for the former president, immediately appealed the ruling. He asked the arrest order to be suspended on the basis of his 80-year-old client's poor health. Fujimori must still complete more than 14 years of his sentence, meaning he would leave prison in 2032 at age 94. Ordered to jail, taken to the hospital Shortly after the ruling Fujimori, who has been hospitalized on several occasions in recent years, was transported by ambulance to a local hospital. He was accompanied by his son, politician Kenji Fujimori. "As the son of Alberto Fujimori it is my human obligation to be with him in his most difficult moments," Kenji tweeted. "If I have to give my life and even my freedom for you, I will do it." Torn political family Albert Fujimori served as the president of Peru from 1990-2000, with some considering him a corrupt, authoritarian dictator who carried out mass crimes against civilians, and others seeing him as a maligned hero who quashed leftist rebels and stabilized Peru's economy. Kuczynski resigned in March of this year under the shadow of corruption allegations Fujimori resigned from office while in Japan in 2000 amid accusations of human rights violations and corruption scandals. After being extradited back to Peru in 2007, he was sentenced to prison for his role in multiple civilian massacres. He was later also found guilty of corruption. Fujimori's health has been previously intertwined with his judicial fate. In 2007, then-President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski granted Fujimori a humanitarian pardon, saying he did not want to see a former president die in prison. The political opposition accused Kuczynski of cutting a political deal in order to avoid an impeachment vote. He is now under investigation in relation to the pardon, with Kenji Fujimori seen as the main player behind the deal. Fujimori's daughter Keiko and son Kenji, both national politicians, are currently engaged in a power battle for control over the right-wing political opposition. Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski has survived the beginnings of an impeachment process, significant allegations of corruption and the backlash of pardoning a jailed dictator. But with protests growing against his government, can former investment banker fulfill his presidential mandate? DW examines the situation. In December, Odebrecht told Peru's parliament that it made payments amounting to $4.8 million (€4.07 million) to a company controlled by Kuczynski while he was a minister in a previous government. Despite first denying any ties with the Brazilian construction company, he later admitted that he worked on an advisory basis for the firm, a move that did not sit well with many Peruvians. After the revelations emerged, parliament took little time to debate whether to impeach him. Days after Odebrecht's testimony, the legislature initiated a debate on impeachment with enough support to push formal proceedings through a vote. However, when lawmakers finally voted on whether to move forward, they failed to garner enough votes for impeachment, with some saying a deal had been made. On Christmas Eve, Kuczynski pardoned former President Alberto Fujimori who was serving a 25-year jail sentence for atrocities committed during his tenure. Kuczynski cited Fujimori's waning health, but others said it may have part of a deal to survive impeachment. Civil conflict between 1980 and 2000 involving leftist militants killed an estimated 70,000 people in the Andean country. The pardon infuriated thousands of Peruvians, prompting protests on Christmas Day and the day after. Protesters held placards lamenting Fujimori's presidency while others displayed photographs of Peruvians disappeared during his tenure from 1990 to 2000. Rights groups said a request had been made to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights to examine a challenge to the legality of the pardon. Fujimori's supporters also rallied for his pardon. Despite having served time in prison, Fujimori continues to maintain a level of popularity in Peru for defeating the Maoist insurgent group Shining Path and stabilizing the economy. His supporters have gathered outside his hospital in Lima, where doctors described his health as "delicate," saying he's unlikely to leave intensive care soon. While protests have dented Kaczynski's presidency, the resignations of senior officials has made things worse. Culture Minister Salvador Der Solar, a former filmmaker, stepped down within days of the protests. Others to jump ship included former Interior Minister Carlos Basombrio, a presidential advisor and the head of the Justice Ministry's office of human rights. While Kaczynski managed to narrowly survive an impeachment process in what observers have speculated was part of a deal to pardon Fujimori, it is unclear whether he'll be able to do so in the future. However, what is certain is that he faces an uphill battle with growing anger on the streets of Peru that threatens to topple his government. Author: Lewis Sanders IV (with Reuters, dpa) cmb/cmk (EFE, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.