Roma and Sinti people have often been cast as an exotic and primitive people who lead romantic, wild and unrestrained lives. Roma narratives — think Carmen, Franz Liszt and the paintings of Otto "Zigeuner" Mueller — have sometimes been well intentioned, but are often hostile. And Romani people have rarely been masters of their own voice. In response, Galerie Kai Dikhas was established in Berlin in 2011 as a venue for Roma and Sinti art, and stories, a place to open dialogue and change perceptions of Europe's largest minority that numbers some 12 million people. Read more: Roma cultural center launched in Berlin "The idea of this gallery is that it is a platform for the artists of the minority in a way that the minority itself makes the image of the minority, where people talk about their own issues, their own perspectives on life," says Moritz Pankok, artistic director and founder of Kai Dikhas. With its namesake a Romani word meaning a "place of seeing," the gallery is an open platform in which the wider community can engage in a dialogue with often marginalized Roma and Sinti people. It is also the world's only gallery to be exclusively devoted to such outsider art. 'Performance Costume' (exhibited at Kai Dikhas in 2015) by Delaine Le Bas, a Romani or Gypsy Traveller artist from Britain. A regular at Kai Dikhas, her work featured at the first Roma pavilion at the 2007 Venice Biennale. Based in the Kreuzberg district of Berlin, Kai Dikhas has been part of a Roma and Sinti art renaissance that ostensibly began at the Venice Biennale's first Roma pavilion in 2007, when the "Paradise Lost" exhibition electrified the international art world. As curator Timea Junghaus stated in the exhibition catalogue: "A new generation of Roma intellectuals and artists is emerging; along with a new Roma consciousness." Funded by Hungarian financier and philanthropist George Soros, the pavilion was radical in a number of ways. Boasting sixteen artists from eight countries, it was the first time in the history of the Venice Biennale that artists were profiled in a transnational pavilion. Many German Sinti fought for Germany not only in the First World War but also in the Wehrmacht from 1939 on. In 1941 the German high command ordered all "Gypsies and Gypsy half-breeds" to be dismissed from active military service for "racial-political reasons." Alfons Lampert and his wife Elsa were then deported to Auschwitz, where they were killed. Eva Justin, a nurse and anthropologist, learned the Romani language to gain the trust of Sinti and Roma. As a specialist in so-called scientific racism, she traveled through Germany to measure people and create a complete registry of "Gypsies" and "Gypsy half-breeds" — the basis for the genocide. She and others researched family ties and and assessed churches' baptismal records. In the 1930s, Sinti and Roma families were in many places forced into camps on the outskirts of town, surrounded by barbed wire and patrolled by guards with dogs, like here in Ravensburg in southwestern Germany. They were unable to leave. Their pets were killed. They had to work as slave laborers. Many were forcibly sterilized. In May 1940 Sinti and Roma families were sent through the streets of the town of Asperg in southwestern Germany to the train station and deported directly to Nazi-occupied Poland. "The dispatchment went smoothly," a police report noted. Most of those deported traveled to their deaths in work camps and Jewish ghettos. Karl Kling appears on this class picture from Karlsruhe in the late 1930s. He was collected from school in spring 1943 and sent to the "Gypsy Camp" at Auschwitz-Birkenau, where he became one of the victims of the genocide. Survivors reported that before being deported they had been marginalized in their schools and sometimes weren't even able to take part in lessons. "I can work," thought nine-year-old Hugo Höllenreiner when he arrived at Auschwitz in a cattle car with his family in 1943. He was greeted by the phrase "Arbeit macht frei" ("work will set you free") above the entrance. It offered hope, Höllenreiner remembered later. He wanted to help his father work: "Then we could be free again." Only one out of every ten people deported to Auschwitz survived. Notorious SS doctor Josef Mengele worked at Auschwitz. He and his colleagues tortured countless prisoners. They mutilated children, infected them with diseases and carried out brutal experiments on twins. Mengele sent eyes, organs and entire body parts back to Berlin. In June 1944, he sent the head of a 12-year-old child. He escaped Europe after the war and never faced trial. When Russia's Red Army arrived at Auschwitz on January 27, 1945, children were among the prisoners. But for the Sinti and Roma, the liberation came too late. On the night of August 2-3, 1944, the officers in charge of Auschwitz ordered those remaining in the "Gypsy Camp" sent to the gas chambers. Two children came crying out of the barracks the next morning and were subsequently murdered. After the concentration camps were liberated, allied and German authorities issued survivors certificates of racial persecution and imprisonment. Later, many people were told they had only been persecuted for criminal reasons, and their requests for compensation were denied. Hildegard Reinhardt (above) lost her three young daughters in Auschwitz. In the early 1980s, representatives of the Sinti and Roma communities staged a hunger strike at the entrance of the former Dachau concentration camp. They were protesting the criminalization of their minority and calling for the recognition of Nazi persecution. In 1982, then-Chancellor Helmut Schmidt officially recognized the Sinti and Roma as victims of Nazi genocide. In 2012, a memorial for the Sinti and Roma victims of Nazi persecution was erected near the Bundestag in Berlin. The site is a reminder of the fight against discrimination for the world's Sinti and Roma, particularly on International Romani Day. To this day, members of the minority still experience discrimination in Germany and around Europe. Author: Andrea Grunau Painting persecution "We were really the first space for contemporary art of the minority of Sinti and Roma in Europe," says Pankok of Kai Dikhas' central place in the evolution of contemporary Romani art. "And I think this by now has led to a public awareness which has spread to many other places." Indeed, in 2011 there was another defining exhibition in Berlin titled "Reconsidering Roma — Aspects of Roma and Sinti Life in Contemporary Art," in which Roma artists and Holocaust survivors, the Austrian-Romani writer Karl Stojka and his sister, the painter Ceija Stojka, focused on the devastating consequences of the Nazi genocide on their community — which wasn't officially acknowledged by the German government until 1982. "Witch Hunt" by Delaine La Bas was part of the defining "Reconsidering Roma" exhibition in Berlin in 2011 Ceija Stojka, who died in 2013 and is known for her paintings of the death camps — but also for her Holocaust memoir, We Live in Seclusion — has since been fetching large prices in the contemporary art market. In May, Kai Dikhas presented an exhibition of Stojka's expressionist works that often depict the grim imagery related to the Holocaust. It was the seventh exhibition of Stojka's work put on by the gallery, and it coincided with a major Stojka retrospective at the renowned Maison Rouge in Paris titled "Ceija Stojka — a Roma Artist in the Century." "There were hundreds of visitors, critics, collectors; the real Paris art scene was there," said Pankok. "And people realized that not only is Ceija Stojka a victim, or someone who [gives] her testimony of the persecution of the Roma during the genocide, but she is also just a great artist." Ceija Stojka: The fear was great behind the barbed wire fence in the Auschwitz concentration camp (2009) Close to home Moritz Pankok, who hails from Mühlheim an der Ruhr in western Germany, was perhaps destined to found Galerie Kai Dikhas. He is the grand nephew of a Weimar-era expressionist artist, Otto Pankok, who won acclaim for his woodblock prints and charcoal drawings of German Sinti people. "He was an artist that was persecuted by the Nazis and was branded as degenerate. His artwork was exhibited at this exhibition, 'Entartete Kunst' (Degenerate Art), in Munich," says Pankok. "He dealt with the Sinti, portraying the Sinti settlement on the periphery of Düsseldorf, which he continued to do during the Nazi period." Ceija Stojka was celebrated by the artist Peter Pichler when he featured the Roma artist in an "alternative" design for a 10 euro bill in 2014 After the war, Otto Pankok documented Sinti persecution at the hand of the Nazis. "Through his charcoal drawings he became the artist who documented the persecution, who made portraits of people who were killed during the Holocaust. Therefore he is known among Sinti." In 2010, Moritz Pankok organized an exhibition of his great uncle's work as part of a Gypsy-Roma-Sinti-Traveler month in Greenwich, England. Read more: Chancellor Merkel inaugurates a memorial to Roma and Sinti 'We are the magicians' On October 23 Galerie Kai Dikhas will be showing works by Lita Cabellut, a celebrated Spanish-Sinti artist who also exhibited at the opening of the gallery in 2011. A Catalan artist living in the Netherlands who grew up on the streets of Barcelona as a Sinti orphan, Cabellut's distinctive oil paintings — which include portraits of the likes of Frida Kahlo and Billie Holiday — have been exhibited internationally. "I am obsessed to paint humanity," she once said. In an interview with the Southeast Review, Cabellut tried to inspire aspiring Roma artists.  "Ok, we are extraordinary, we have in our veins the magic of creation, we are the magicians in the space between one star and the other." Part of a series of painting portraits of Spanish-Romani flamenco singer Camarón de la Isla by Lita Cabellut that were exhibited by Galerie Kai Dikhas in 2011 Such Romani spirit has infused her blossoming body of work. "She is commercially, I have to say, the most successful of our artists," says Pankok. Callebut's large-scale figurative paintings recently featured in a Rossini opera in which she created the set design that included eight of her works. "We are going to present those eight large-scale paintings, and this will be done here in the gallery and upstairs in the documentation center of Sinti and Roma," Pankok explained. "It will be really a big exhibition. We will roll out a red carpet for this artist because she is the most successful contemporary artist of the minority." Yet again, Galerie Kai Dikhas will be at the forefront of a rising art movement that promises to reveal important untold stories — and the magic of creation.