Swiss bank UBS Group AG, its French unit and six top executives went on trial in Paris on Monday accused of helping wealthy clients stash cash overseas and avoid taxes in France. The bank's staff allegedly approached French clients — from wealthy businessmen to sports stars — at receptions, golf and tennis tournaments or concerts to convince them to hide their money in Switzerland. Read more: Lehman Brothers: Looking back at the basics If found guilty, the Zurich-based lender could face a hefty fine, amounting to as much as €5 billion ($5.76 billion). The trial comes after years of investigations and the bank's aborted settlement negotiations with French authorities. During the French investigation, UBS turned down a settlement offer of €1.1 billion made by the authorities. The amount corresponded to what the Swiss bank had already paid as a court bond, according to judicial sources. UBS, which is Switzerland's largest banking institution, intends to stand its ground in court. "After more than six years of legal proceedings, we will finally have the opportunity to respond to the often unfounded allegations," it said on Friday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34qCT Among those on trial is Raoul Weil, the former third-in-command at UBS, and Patrick de Fayet, formerly the second-ranking executive for its French operations. Legal woes all over UBS has faced a series of fraud cases in a number of countries in recent years. Belgium has also indicted the bank for organized tax fraud, while it has paid fines to US, British and Swiss regulators over alleged interest rate rigging. In the US in 2009, UBS accepted to pay $780 million to settle a similar tax probe after admitting it helped thousands of clients in the country to cheat the Internal Revenue Service. In Germany, likewise, UBS agreed to a €300 million fine in 2014. The investigation into UBS in the United States began after UBS employee Bradley Birkenfeld revealed a scheme to funnel wealthy customers' cash from the United States to Switzerland bypassing the US taxman. Birkenfeld spoke separately to French investigators. Even though he is not due to testify in court in Paris he will attend the hearings. Read more: Central banks and the question of independence France's national financial crimes unit estimates at least €9.76 billion was not reported to the French tax authorities. For money laundering, French law lets judges enforce fines as high as half of the amount laundered. The trial is set to last for six weeks until November 15. Most of the trial's first week will be spent on dealing with technicalities likely to be brought up by the defendants' lawyers. The French tax case is one of two big legal issues still weighing over UBS. The bank is among several big financial institutions that have yet to settle disputes in the US over the sale of toxic mortgage securities in the years before the financial crisis. sri/uhe (Reuters, AFP) An iconic picture from September 11, 2008 — the day employees at Lehman Brothers' London office in the financial district of Canary Wharf were called together. The photograph caught the moment Gwion Moore, one of those pictured in the photograph, and his colleagues were told by bosses that things were going to be OK. At the time, the Lehman Brothers share price was tanking by the minute. Gwion Moore now works in his native Australia. He recalls the contrast between the growing panic in financial markets over the fate of the stricken firm with the mood inside the building at the time. "It was almost a festival atmosphere at the bank. We weren't doing any business. But people were still coming to work and just chatting to each other." Restaurant worker Jose Manuel Abel smokes a cigarette as he waits to catch a flight from Barcelona to Munich, Germany. Abel said farewell to his wife and children and left after he couldn't find a job in his native Spain due to the crisis. Eric Lipps, then 52, waits in line to enter the NYCHires job fair in New York City on December 9, 2009. The fallout of Lehman's collapse led to big unemployment in vast sectors of the economy. Especially the bankers found the transition to the non-financial sector quite painful. Eric Lipps was one of the lucky ones. A few months after losing his job he was hired as a child support enforcement officer in New York, a job he still holds. Here he is shown outside 4 World Trade Center on August 17, a decade after he was pictured in line at a jobs fair. "Mercifully I had money so I wasn't going to be hand to mouth," Lipps said. . Tsutomu Fukasawa (right), a foreign exchange dealer, with a colleague at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow, 10 years on from Lehman's collapse. After the crisis, some of the firm's customers left the market, but Fukasawa says Japan's economy is recovering lost ground. "The Japanese economy suffered a big hit, but it is slowly but surely catching up with the global financial market." Former UK finance minister, Alistair Darling, was in charge of the British economy as the financial crisis escalated. Now a member of the upper house of Parliament, he says the decision by the Conservative-led government in 2010 to try to wipe the country's budget deficit in five years extended the economic slowdown. "What is commonly called austerity has prolonged the downturn." Donald Trump promised to drain the swamp. But the Washington-Wall Street revolving door keeps turning and many Wall Street stars have managed to claw their way into the highest reaches of government, including many involved in Lehman brothers at the time of its collapse in 2008, the country's largest bankruptcy in its history. Author: Jo Harper