Afghans will go to the polls on October 20 to elect representatives for the lower house of parliament. The lower house of parliament comprises 250 members that are directly elected by single, non-transferable vote and serve a five-year term. At least 68 seats are reserved for women delegates, 10 for Kuchi nomads, and one each for Sikh and Hindu minorities, as mandated by the Afghan constitution. The vote was originally scheduled for 2016 but a lack of security and political conflicts have caused delay. The parliamentary election is considered crucial in determining whether Kabul can hold next year's presidential polls. Volatile security and powerbrokers Security remains the biggest challenge in Afghanistan. Around 54,000 security personnel will be deployed to some 5,000 polling centers across the country to ensure voter safety. According to Afghan officials, voting won't be held at more than 2,000 polling centers due to a high risk of violent attacks by the Taliban and "Islamic State" (IS) militants. Islamist insurgents control at least 14 percent of Afghan districts and are battling with security forces to gain control of more territory. Apart from an increasing threat from the Taliban, the militant outfit that ruled the country from 1996 to 2001, the sudden rise of IS in parts of Afghanistan is posing another big challenge to Afghan authorities in holding elections in many areas. The country's Independent Election Commission (IEC) called off the polling in Ghazni province, whose capital was recently overrun by the Taliban. "At present, the biggest challenge for the government is to improve the security situation and thwart Taliban attacks," Attiqullah Amarkhail, a Kabul-based security expert, told DW. Read more: A bloody start to Afghan election process Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33wsr Islamists are not the only security threat in Afghanistan; former warlords remain influential in the country. They have forced the IEC to shut down their offices in certain areas until their demands are met by election officials. These warlords, experts warn, could use their local militias to stop people from voting. IEC offices in southern Kandahar, northern Balkh and western Herat provinces have remained closed for several days due to protests by local powerbrokers. Concerns over voting fraud Previous elections in Afghanistan have been much criticized for rigging, voting irregularities and fraud allegations. Read more: Insecurity, fraud undermine upcoming Afghan elections A coalition of political parties accused Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and the IEC of maneuvering the election process in a manner that ensures the success of pro-government candidates. Both Ghani and the IEC have denied these accusations. Rights groups also complain that the government has not guaranteed an independent oversight of the October 20 election. Yusuf Rashid, a member of the non-governmental Free and Fair Election Forum of Afghanistan organization, says Afghan civil society groups are yet to receive the government support to deploy thousands of election observers across the country. "We will try to deploy volunteers to polling stations, but it will not be a proper monitoring system," Rashid told DW. Rashid fears the election could even be postponed if the government fails to take necessary measures to ensure free and fair elections. Read more: Opinion: Afghan voters are being tricked Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams