French authorities raided the headquarters of an Islamic Shiite association and the homes of its leaders near the northern city of Dunkirk during the early hours of Tuesday morning. According to regional officials, raids on the Zahra Centre France and about a dozen homes were staged as part of the "prevention of terrorism" procedures. The association's leaders are suspected of supporting terrorist organizations, security sources said. Eleven people were arrested in the pre-dawn raids according to news agency AFP, three of whom face charges for illegal possession of firearms.  The center's assets have also been frozen. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2xi7t Police said they had been closely monitoring the activities of the Zahra Centre "because of the strong support by its leaders for several terrorist organizations and in favor of movements backing ideas that are contrary to the values" of France. The group's leader, Yahia Gouasmi, is known for his anti-Zionist views and ties to Iran. The small town of Grande-Synthe, where the Zahra Centre is based, is a magnet for migrants trying to cross the Channel into Britain and a known draw for smuggling activities. It remained unclear whether the Tuesday's arrests were linked to a suspected plot in France back in June to attack a gathering of Iranian opposition group the National Council of Resistance of Iran (NCRI). Read more: Dunkirk refugee camp is the stuff of nightmares Police in France, Belgium and Germany have so far swooped on six people, including Iranian diplomat Assadollah Asadi, after details of the alleged plot were revealed. Also on Tuesday, France announced it had frozen assets belonging to Asadi, as well as to one other man and Iran's Ministry of Security and Intelligence. "In taking this decision, France underlines its determination to fight against terrorism in all its forms, particularly on its own territory," France's interior, foreign and economy ministers said in a joint statement. France, home to Europe's largest Muslim population, remains on high alert following a wave of Islamist attacks since 2015 that have killed close to 250 people. People with links to terrorist organizations can be forbidden from leaving their town or city of residence and required to report to police. They can also be banned from specified places. This is a toning down of the emergency law, which allowed partial house arrest. Its provisions were used not just against suspected terrorists, but also to ban suspected radical leftists from demonstrations. Authorities will be able to carry out searches of homes, but only to prevent acts of terrorism. In contrast to the emergency powers, searches must first be approved by a judge. Of the 3,600 house searches carried out in the seven months after the state of emergency came into effect, only six resulted in terrorism-related criminal proceedings, according to a report by Human Rights Watch. Authorities retain the power to close places of worship where extremist ideas are propagated, including promoting hatred or discrimination, as well as inciting violence or supporting acts of terrorism. Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front, has complained the law did not go far enough in combating the "Islamist ideology that is waging war on us." Security forces can check the identity of people within a 10-kilometre radius of ports and international airports. The government's original draft bill proposed a 20-kilometre radius. Le Monde calculated this would have covered 67 per cent of the French population, including 36 of the country's largest 39 cities. Unlike the other powers, this one will not expire automatically in 2020. This continues emergency powers under which security forces can search property and frisk persons at and near major public events that could be targeted by terrorists. Other provisions include a civil servant working in an area related to security or defence can be transferred or dismissed if he or she is found to hold radical opinions. Soldiers can also be discharged for similar motives. Author: Jo Harper Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/aw (AFP, AP, Reuters)