Manuel Neuer - 6 A quiet first half but proved his worth with a vital save from Kylian Mbappe at the start of the second half, reading the situation well to close down the rapid teenager when one-on-one. Had no chance for Antoine Griezmann's header, which was perfectly placed, or with the penalty – and prevented worse when he saved from Ousmane Dembele. But with Löw ringing the changes and finally giving the next generation a chance, it was a shame to see Marc-Andre ter Stegen still sat on the bench. Read more: Griezmann brace condemns Germany to another defeat How Germany's players rated against the Netherlands Matthias Ginter - 5 Picked up a needless yellow card in a typically physical performance but otherwise did well in an unfamiliar back three alongside Hummels and Süle. He wasn't selected to score goals but nevertheless failed to convert two half-decent chances, first when Hugo Lloris saved after he had scrambled the ball towards goal from a corner, and then when sending a free header over the bar. Mats Hummels – 5 A key part of the veteran spine of Joachim Löw's team, the Bayern Munich defender's vast experience was called upon at the heart of a back three alongside the younger Ginter and Niklas Süle. He marshalled the defense well for large parts but gave away the penalty which led to France's winner – although the contact was minimal and the decision debatable. Niklas Süle - 5 Süle was a logical choice given the pace in the French attack. And he was solid alongside his Bayern teammate Hummels – until leaving Antoine Griezmann unmarked in the box for the equalizer. He prevented France from going ahead with a well-timed challenge on Olivier Giroud shortly after, but the momentum had already swung in the hosts' favor. Gsrmany weren't able to make the most of attacking set pieces Thilo Kehrer - 5 Made a good initial impression on his first start with his width and pace on the right, clearly confident in the city where he plays his club football with Paris Saint-Germain. Fought a fast-paced battle up and down that side against Lucas Hernandez but was also partly at fault for France's equalizer, failing to block the cross. Nico Schulz - 5 Provided width down the left hand side, as Kehrer did on the right – but never offered sufficient quality in the attacking third. Showed good concentration and kept a cool head when faced with an advancing Mbappe in the second half, putting in a well-timed tackle. Joshua Kimmich - 6 Starting in defensive midfield, again alongside Toni Kroos, Kimmich helped keep a potent French midfield consisting of Paul Pogba, Blaise Matuidi and N'Golo Kanté under control in the first half, while also springing German counter-attacks with clever balls out of defense. Toni Kroos – 6 It looked like it could be a difficult night for the Real Madrid man when Mbappe sprinted past him early on, but Kroos soon found his rhythm in midfield, picking out the runs of Schulz, Timo Werner, Leroy Sane and Kehrer with his metronomic passing. Hugo Lloris got a hand to his penalty, but it was otherwise a solid return to form – until France's midfield trio found their game in the second half and took control. Toni Kroos converts from the spot to give Germany the lead Serge Gnabry - 7 While his offensive teammates stood out for their work on the ball, Gnabry worked hard off it, pressing France aggressively and forcing Les Bleus into mistakes in dangerous areas. It was Gnabry who won the ball back and played in Sane, leading to Germany's first-half penalty. After the break, the Bayern Munich man showed more in possession and was one of the better performers. Timo Werner - 4 With Germany switching the focus to fast-paced counter-attacks, it looked as if Werner would benefit from playing in a system in which he thrives at club level. But aside from a couple of dangerous runs from the left in the first half, the RB Leipzig man struggled to get involved in the game. Leroy Sané – 7 Germany's answer to Mbappe – in the first half at least. Making only his second competitive start for his country, the Manchester City man was a huge threat on the break, but he must be more clinical. His missed a huge chance to equalize in Amsterdam on Saturday night and found himself through on goal in the first half in Paris tonight, but opted to try and pass rather than shoot himself. Another miscue in the box after half time summed up a promising evening which could have been so much better but had plenty of promise.