India has deported seven Rohingya Muslims after the country's top court rejected a last-minute plea that they be allowed to remain in the country as they feared for their lives in Myanmar.  It's the first group of Rohingya refugees to be deported after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government last year ordered the expulsion of some 40,000 Rohingya refugees living in settlements across the country. India regards Rohingya refugees, including 16,000 of those registered with the UN's refugee agency, as "illegal immigrants," and says they do not have a right to stay in the country. It also says the Rohingya posed a "serious threat" with intelligence data showing links between some of the refugees and Pakistan-based terror groups and the "Islamic State" (IS). "It's disappointing that the Supreme Court [of India] has allowed the government to deport the seven Rohingya refugees," defense attorney Prashant Bhushan, who put in the plea to stall the deportation, told DW on Thursday. "The UNHCR [the UN refugee agency] and the Human Rights Watch have said that conditions in Myanmar are not safe for their return. Rohingya who have gone back have been tortured," he said. "All human rights organizations should be alarmed after this deportation." International rights groups have said the deportation order violates international law. Read more: Rohingyas feel safe in India, but uncertainty looms Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33qoD Voluntary return? The seven men had been in detention since 2012 after being arrested for illegal entry. They were handed over to Myanmar authorities in the border town of Moreh, in the northeastern state of Manipur. "We will drive them from this border point and drop them 100 kilometers (62 miles) from here, and after that it is their responsibility to go to the Rakhine state of Myanmar," Aung Myo, deputy director of immigration in Myanmar's Tamu border district, told reporters during a televised news conference. Bhushan told DW the top court had agreed to the government's assertion that the men had themselves sought to return to Myanmar. "The judge rejected my request that the UNHCR should be asked to ascertain whether the men really want to return or not," he said. 'Dark day for human rights' Rohingya, a vast majority of whom are Muslim, have been migrating to India and other neighboring countries over the years to escape persecution in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, where they have been denied citizenship rights. Read more: Rohingya people in Myanmar: What you need to know About 700,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh in the past year alone to escape military and civilian reprisals, which have been described by the United Nations as "ethnic cleansing." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30Ej2 "Today's decision by the Supreme Court marks a dark day for human rights in India. This decision negates India's proud tradition of providing refuge to those fleeing serious human rights violations," said Amnesty India, which accused the Indian government of conducting "a relentless smear campaign" against the Rohingya refugees in India for over two years. The Supreme Court of India is hearing several petitions to block government plans to deport the 40,000 Rohingya refugees to Myanmar. Some of India's prominent legal minds are representing the Rohingya in the case. "Today they have expelled seven, tomorrow they can expel all of us," said Syed Alam, a refugee at a camp in the northern state of Jammu and Kashmir, told the Reuters news agency. "India doesn't know what happens with Rohingya inside Myanmar. Can it not see what Myanmar has done to our people in the last year?" Since August, more than 600,000 Rohingya have fled from Myanmar into Bangladesh. "The day the military came, they burnt down the village and shot my mother as she was trying to escape. My father couldn’t walk, so they stabbed him. I saw this with my own eyes," says 10-year-old Mohammed Belal who managed to run away from his village. Mohammed’s sister Nur also watched the slaughter. She and her brother now live in a shelter for unaccompanied children in Bangladesh. She can play there and gets regular meals, a stark contrast to her journey from Myanmar where she and her brother nearly starved. But she is still haunted by the trauma of the recent weeks. "I miss my parents, my home, my country," she says. The conflict, which has been going on for 70 years and is rooted in the post-World War II social organization of the country, has claimed more than 2,000 victims since 2016, including the mother of 12-year-old Rahman, above. "They set fire to my home, and my mother was ill, so she could not leave," he says. Dilu-Aara, 5, came to the camp with her sister Rojina after she witnessed her parents being murdered by the military. "I was crying all the time and the bullets were flying over our heads. I escaped somehow." The international aid agency Save the Children is helping minors who come to Kutupalong without parents. Children make up to 60 percent of all Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh. Jaded Alam is among the hundreds of kids who came to Kutupalong without parents. Fortunately, his aunt cares for him — and very well, he admits. Jaded grew up in a village called Mandi Para where he used to love playing football, but everything changed when the military attacked. "They told us to leave our home. When I was running with my parents, they shot them. They died on the spot," he says. Not all families have been separated during their plight, however. Rahman Ali has been scouring the refugee camp for weeks now after his 10-year-old son Zifad disappeared. Rumors of child abductions have swirled around the camp for years, and Rahman fears his son has fallen prey to human traffickers. "I can't eat, I can’t sleep. I’m so upset! It’s like I’ve gone mad." When the shooting started, Sokina Khatun did all she could to protect her children — but she couldn't save Yasmine,15, and Jamalita, 20, who were in a neighboring village at the time. "Their throats were cut in front of their grandparents," she says. "I was numb, I couldn’t feel the pain. Right now my mind is not normal," she says. She managed to rescue nine of her offspring. Yasmine thinks she might be 15 but looks considerably younger. In her village, she used to play with marbles and run in the nearby fields, but different memories haunt her now: The attack by Myanmar forces, the beating and murder of her beloved father and brothers, and the rape by a group of Burmese soldiers who also robbed her. "I felt lots of pain in my body," she says. Author: Jan Tomes, John Owens Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.