This was a far cry from the depths of his despair at Goodison Park a few months ago. Davy Klaassen, the Dutch midfielder who orchestrated Werder Bremen's impressive victory over Wolfsburg at the Weserstadion on Friday night, has found a new lease of life in the Bundesliga. Every powerful run forward, every sliding tackle in midfield, is Everton's loss and Bremen's gain as Klaassen continues to produce the kind of quality that promises to lift Bremen from mid-table mediocrity to a European place. The internationally capped midfielder was a key member of the Ajax side that reached the Europa League final in 2016, falling at the final hurdle to Manchester United. He was rightly considered one of the most complete midfielders in Europe when he made his move to England, and while things didn't work out in Liverpool — as is often the case when accomplished players try to break into Premier League squads —his talents have shone almost immediately in the Bundesliga. Credit must go to Bremen for spotting the talented 25-year-old, who has proven that it's not just fleet-footed teenagers who can use the Bundesliga as a platform to elevate their reputations. For Klaassen, the motive was more of a repair job after only 16 appearances and no goals for Everton. Klaassen fires in the opener for Werder Bremen against Wolfsburg, his second goal in four games for Die Grün-Weißen. At the Weserstadion on this early early October night, Klaassen was a cut above everyone else on the field. His late runs caused Wolfsburg problems all night, as did his eye for a pass and ability to turn defense into attack at the drop of a hat. Klaassen scored the winner at Augsburg on Matchday 4and, three matchdays on, he scored the opener, a well-struck drive that he anticipated brilliantly. It's Klaassen's ability to sense the game developing that is perhaps his greatest asset. The departure of the central lying Thomas Delaney to Borussia Dortmund in the summer left Bremen without a dynamic box-to-box midfielder. Klaassen has already shown signs he is not only capable of filling this role, but also of providing an extra level of skill that was perhaps missing in Florian Kohfeldt's side last season. Davy Klaassen showed how quickly he is settling in at his new club by delivering a game-winning performance in a gritty game. The Dutchman's goal on the volley in the box 10 minutes before the break gave Werder confidence in a game where Wolfsburg had passages of pressure. Forty-year-old Claudio Pizarro came off the bench to set up fellow sub Johannes Eggestein for the second late on. Marwin Hitz will face his former team as the Bundesliga hold it's breath as to whether Borussia Dortmund can keep winning. Fourteen goals in their last three games has seen Lucien Favre's side hit top gear fast, but against an Augsburg side enjoying a decent start to the season this game could be closer than it first appears. After a perfect start, suddenly Bayern Munich look shaky. The question will be whether Niko Kovac can steady the ship, especially after the surprise defeat against Hertha Berlin last time out in the league. Gladbach have a great record against Bayern and will be keen to make sure they are the opponent that Bayern start their comeback against. Author: Jonathan Harding With Klaassen in the side, Bremen are a far more dangerous outfit and their ascent to second in the Bundesliga, if only for less than 24 hours, is testament to the progress they have made and the smart business the club made in the close season. But no one will be prouder of the club's superb start to the season than the man whose very name oozes class.