A total of 10 suspected pipe-bombs have been sent to US Democrats, their supporters, and critics of US President Donald Trump — and police have warned there may be more in the postal system. The list of targets spreads from New York, Delaware and Washington, DC, to Florida and California with details of the packages suggesting a pattern. The items were packaged in manila envelopes, addressed to prominent Trump critics and carried US postage stamps. The mail bomb timeline so far: October 22: The first device was found in a postbox near the New York home of billionaire businessman George Soros — a major donor to the Democratic Party. October 23: The Secret Service uncovered a second package addressed to Secretary of State and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Earlier this month Clinton had said: "You cannot be civil with a political party that wants to destroy what you stand for, what you care about." October 24 morning: A suspected bomb en route to former President Barack Obama was intercepted in Washington DC. Another package was sent to broadcaster CNN's New York office, causing the entire building to be evacuated. That package was addressed to former CIA Director John Brennan — a Trump critic who had been due to appear on CNN that day. Police said they found an "envelope containing white powder" in the packaging of the device. "There is a total and complete lack of understanding at the White House about the seriousness of their continued attacks on the media," said CNN president Jeff Zucker. "Words matter. Thus far, they have shown no comprehension of that." October 24 afternoon: It was then revealed that former Attorney General Eric Holder had been sent a suspected bomb. But the package had ended up at the office of representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz in Sunrise, Florida, which was listed as the return address. It was then reported that another device addressed to Democratic Congresswoman Maxine Waters had been found at a mail sorting facility near Washington, DC. A second suspicious package addressed to her was later discovered in Los Angeles. In June, Waters had called on supporters to harass Trump's cabinet members in public. Speaking at the White House, Trump condemned "acts or threats of political violence," saying they "have no place in the United States." US authorities have intercepted several suspicious parcels addressed to top politicians in Washington DC, New York, and Florida, as well as the CNN's Manhattan offices. Police in New York said all of the examined devices appeared to be crude pipe bombs. Many of the people who were mailed suspicious packages are high-profile Democrats. One alleged explosive device was addressed to 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. It was intercepted at a facility near her home outside New York, which she shares with her husband, former US president Bill Clinton. Police also intercepted a suspected pipe bomb addressed to former president Barack Obama at his private residence in Washington DC. No injuries have been reported in any of the cases; some items were investigated but found to be harmless. American cable network CNN was forced to evacuate from its Manhattan offices after a parcel was found inside the building. The package was addressed to former CIA director John Brennan, who occasionally contributes to the network. Police eventually managed to remove the object safely. New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo reported that another parcel was mailed to his office, but this was later disputed by the police. The Democratic official described the wave of parcels as "terrorism" and said he would not be surprised if more were found. Police in Florida are examining a suspicious package delivered to Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). However, some sources reported the package was addressed to former Attorney General Eric Holder, and had Schultz listed as sender. The wave of suspicious packages started with US-Hungarian billionaire George Soros, who received a device believed to be a pipe bomb two days before similar parcels were discovered elsewhere. Police found the package at his residence in Katonah, outside of New York City. A day after US police tracked down the package directed to Barack Obama, several media outlets reported that a suspicious parcel addressed to his vice president, Joe Biden, was also discovered in the US state of Delaware. New York police discovered a suspicious package addressed to the famous Holywood actor Robert De Niro near the actor's restaurant in Manhattan. The 75-year-old film star has repeatedly slammed US President Donald Trump, calling him a "punk" and an "embarrassment to this country." FBI said they were investigating two suspicious packages mailed to senior Democratic lawmaker Maxine Waters. The congresswoman was slammed by Trump as "an extraordinarily low IQ person" in July after she called opponents of Trump's migration policy to harass his Cabinet members. Author: Darko Janjevic October 25 morning: A suspected explosive device was sent to a Manhattan restaurant owned by actor Robert De Niro, a vocal Trump critic. Two officials told the Associated Press that a person working at De Niro's Manhattan office called police after seeing images of a package bomb sent to CNN and recalling a similar package addressed to the actor. It was later revealed that two suspected bombs were sent to former Vice President Joe Biden in his home state of Delaware. October 25 afternoon: At a press conference on Thursday, police would not explain why none of the packages had detonated and stressed they were still treating them as "live devices. "The devices were being examined by technicians at the FBI's forensic lab in Quantico, Virginia. "A very big part of the anger we see today in our society is caused by the purposely false and inaccurate reporting of the Mainstream Media that I refer to as Fake News," Trump tweeted on Thursday. Brennan replied to the US president telling him to "stop blaming others" and "try to act presidential." October 26:  Investigators were searching for the culprit on Friday. Law enforcement officials told the Associated Press on Friday that the devices, containing timers and batteries, were not rigged like booby-trapped package bombs that would explode when opened, but it remains unclear whether the devices were poorly designed or never intended to explode. Trump tweeted again on Friday, claiming that his critics were blaming him for the mail bombs. "Funny how lowly-rated CNN, and others, can criticize me at will, even blaming me for the current spate of bombs and ridiculously comparing this to September 11th and the Oklahoma City bombing, yet when I criticize them they go wild and scream, 'it's just not Presidential!'" law/rt (AFP, AP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.