The United States military has received a request from the Department of Homeland Security for between 800 and 1,000 active-duty troops on the US-Mexico border, according to US officials. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is expected to sign the order as early as Thursday, a US official told the Associated Press.  The details of the order have not been finalized. Read more: Migrant caravan 'could not be larger gift' for Donald Trump The request comes as thousands of Central American migrants continue their trek through Mexico toward the US border. In a series of Tweets on Thursday, US President Donald Trump told the caravan to turn back and said he is "bringing out the military for this National Emergency." Support only The troops would include doctors and engineers and mainly provide logistical support, including tents, vehicles and equipment. About 2,000 National Guard troops are already assisting at the border under a previous arrangement by the Pentagon. They are mainly serving in a support role to help free up border patrol officers. US law prohibits active-duty service members from being involved in law enforcement activities on US soil unless specifically authorized by Congress. The president is authorized under some specific statues to deploy troops for riot control or relief efforts after natural disasters. The caravan of Central American migrants, once estimated by the United Nations to be more than 7,000 strong, stormed Mexico's southern border with Guatemala last week. Most are from Honduras, seeking to escape poverty, violence and government corruption that plagues the region. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3773n Immigration and midterm elections Since becoming president, Trump has taken a hard line toward immigration, both legal and illegal. One of his campaign promises during his 2016 presidential run was building a wall along the US-Mexico border, a project that has been slow to take off. The president has made immigration a top issue heading to the midterm Congressional elections on November 6. The caravan has been a rallying cry for Trump, who has accused the Democrats, with no evidence, of organizing and bankrolling the caravan. Read more: Caravan of migrants tests Trump's anti-immigrant policies During a rally in Nevada last week, the president said: "The Democrats want caravans, they like the caravans. A lot of people say 'I wonder who started that caravan?'" Along with deploying troops, Trump has threatened to cut aid to the region and even shut down the US-Mexico border if authorities don't stop the migrants. Most Central American migrants travel on top of cargo trains, to reduce the risk of being stopped and deported. Buses are more often stopped by migration officers. Crossing the American border is a challenge. In case they cannot afford a "coyote" — a human trafficker— many of the young men consider carrying drugs as a means to pay for the border crossing that is controlled by drug cartels. Catching a moving train is not without danger: Alex Garcia, who used to be a farmer, lost his leg while trying to get off a moving train. He is recovering at a refugee shelter and doesn't know where to go afterwards. According to Miquel Angel (above) the biggest risk along the road is being kidnapped by organized criminal groups, like the Zetas. Most migrants do not carry a cellphone or a notebook, in case they are caught and extorted. The migrants try to find shelter along the route in one of Mexico’s 52 albergues, or shelters. In Apizaco they are allowed 24 hours to rest, except when they are the victim of a crime or accident. All four men in the picture have permission to stay longer, as they were either shot or otherwise physically injured during their journey. Sometimes the migrants have to wait for days for the next train. Delmin Flores (center), and his two cousins Alejandro Deras and Luis Deras sit in the sun for hours in front of the shelter. They were forced to leave their coffee-growing region in Honduras after coffee prices plummeted. At night, they risk being robbed or killed by organ trade traffickers. Hardly any children or women take the journey by train. The risk of falling into the hands of traffickers or being violated is very high. This woman and child are accompanied by the husband, who has tried the journey more than 17 times. Herdin Varga recounts how he was shot by a guard on the train. The bullets hit him in his arm and neck. One centimeter to the right and he would be dead. He's been given permission to recover in the shelter and is in the process of requesting a temporary permit to travel Mexico so that he can continue his trip by bus. The shelter was founded and funded in 2010 by the Catholic priest Ramiro Sanchez. It later turned into a civil organization, independent of the government. Before meals are served, refugees pray together. Many of the migrants are religious and believe that God will provide protection during their journey. If they've checked out of the shelter, migrants cannot enter again to spend the night. This rule has been installed to protect the safety of the employees who fear that the migrants may have been come into contact with human traffickers. "The shelter is for humanitarian aid, not for people making business out of it," shelter employee Sergio Luna told DW. This group of migrants boarded the only train that passed that day, but it stopped immediately after leaving the railway station. They were forced to walk back to the shelter and try their luck next time. Author: Sanne Derks (Apizaco, Mexico) dv/amp (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.