German prosecutors searched Opel sites in the country on Monday as part of an ongoing probe into the possible manipulation of diesel exhaust emissions. German authorities raided facilities of the carmaker — formerly a German brand and now a division of the French PSA Group — in the towns of Rüsselsheim and Kaiserlautern. The Frankfurt prosecutor's office says it is currently probing around 95,000 vehicles, equipped with Euro 6 engines, with the investigation centered on whether exhaust management software was used to manipulate emissions test results. The prosecutor's office confirmed that the vehicles being probed were Opel Insignia, Zafira and Cascada models. "Opel confirms that the public prosecutor's office of Frankfurt is conducting investigations in the course of preliminary proceedings on emissions at the sites in Rüsselsheim and Kaiserslautern," the carmaker said in a statement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2h4ua "We cannot comment on details concerning the ongoing investigation at this moment in time. The company is fully cooperating with the authorities. Opel reaffirms that its vehicles comply with the applicable regulations." The Federal Motor Transport Authority (KBA) had originally filed a criminal complaint against Opel, the prosecutor's office confirmed, and in a separate development on Monday, the KBA said that it wants Opel to recall around 100,000 vehicles. Late to the scandal The Opel brands in question were developed before Opel was sold by General Motors to the PSA Group in 2017. The PSA Group has yet to comment on the news. In 2016, Opel admitted that its Zafira model contained software that switched off emissions treatment systems in certain conditions. However, it insists the action was possible through legal loopholes. The cars being investigated were made in the period between 2012 to 2017. Read more: German government announces details of diesel agreement Opel has increasingly found itself in the line of fire in the ongoing fallout from the 2015 Dieselgate scandal, when German car giant Volkswagen admitted to fitting more than 11 million cars worldwide with devices designed to make its diesel cars appear less polluting than they actually were. That scandal created a series of existential crises at Volkswagen as well as at other German carmakers such as BMW and Daimler, which were implicated in similar schemes.The entire Dieselgate affair has dramatically reshaped the German car industry, with talk of diesel bans, retrofits and electic vehicles now very much on the agenda. About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was September 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But it wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc aos/hg (Reuters, dpa)