The state environment agency for North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) on Monday announced the formation of a so-called "wolf area," demarcating nearly 1,000 square kilometers (386 square miles) after authorities found evidence of a lone female wolf within the municipality of Schermbeck. "Although formally it is not yet possible to speak of a wolf that has settled in this location … we have decided to designate a wolf area as of today," said NRW State Environment Minister Ursula Heinen-Esser. Technically, the wolf ought have been in residence for at least six months to be considered settled, but Heinen-Esser said the state had decided to act early based on repeated sightings and other indications that the female was planning to stay in the area. "For the time being, we have to reckon with the wolf remaining," Heinen-Esser said. She added that people can be kept informed about the situation by visiting www.wolf.nrw. Heinen-Esser noted that by formally recognizing the area, shepherds and farmers can apply for assistance to protect livestock. The NRW state environment agency made the area deliberately large in a bid to provide support to as many people as possible. The wolf — identified as GW954f — comes from a family of wolves located to the north of NRW in the German state of Lower Saxony, according to the government. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2queJ Rise of the wolves The number of wolves in Germany has grown steadily since their reintroduction in the 1990s, according to figures provided by the Federal Agency for Nature Conservation (BfN) last year. Authorities estimate that up to 160 adult wolves reside in Germany. They have formed about 60 packs, up from 47 in 2016. Given their status as an endangered species, wolves are protected under EU conservation laws. Read more: Managing wolves in Germany: A toothy job for tough ladies In Germany, wolves were hunted and driven out of the country by the end of the 19th century. However, wolves from neighboring Poland began moving west to search for new territory in the late 1990s. By 2000, wolves had effectively settled in parts of eastern Germany. However, not everyone backs the resurgence of wolves in Germany, not least farmers and shepherds who have blamed wolves for attacks on their livestock. Some have even resorted to illegally hunting wolves. Since the 15th century, wolves have been systematically persecuted, particularly in western and central Europe. By the 19th century, human hunters had almost wiped the species out completely. Now the animals are strictly protected, and it is illegal to catch or kill them. According to new data from the Federal Agency for Nature Conservation (BfN), there are currently 60 packs of wolves living across Germany — 13 more than in 2016. Researchers also recorded 13 wolf couples and three sedentary single wolves, amounting to 150-160 adult animals in total. Road traffic poses the biggest threat to wolves: 140 of the around 200 dead wolves since 2000 were killed in vehicle accidents. In addition to road traffic, Germany's wolf population has also been targeted by illegal killings. According to official figures, 26 wolves have been shot dead in recent years, including five over the past 12 months alone. Wolves can live up to 13 years in the wild. However, only about half of all wolf pups actually survive beyond their first year. Canine distemper or mange mite infections can be fatal to weak immune systems — especially in cases where the puppies are malnourished. Pups also have a slim chance of survival if their parents are killed. While wolves aren't known for attacking people, they have been blamed for killing sheep. Farmers have tried to protect their land with electric fences or livestock dogs. If their animals are killed, German farmers are eligible for compensation. Some livestock owners and hunters want permission to shoot wolves to protect their animals, but conservation authorities say this is simply not an option. Tatjana Schneider (pictured) knows wolves well. She manages the Werner Freund Wolf Park in Germany's western Saarland region, where she conducts behavioral research. Our pet dogs are domesticated versions of the wolf, and in some cases it's hard to tell them apart. One key difference, though, is that a wolf's muzzle is usually slightly longer than that of a domestic dog. Author: Gero Rueter (nm) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.