Rosmah Mansor, the wife of former Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, on Thursday pleaded not guilty to money laundering and tax evasion charges. The first 12 charges related to deposits to a single bank account belonging to her from 2013-2017, totalling more than 7 million ringgit (€1.47 million, $1.68 million). Five further charges were for dodging taxes on the deposits. In the charge sheets, prosecutors said Rosmah "engaged directly in a transaction that involves proceeds of unlawful activity" in violation of laws against money laundering. Najib Razak was Malaysia's prime minister from April 2009 until May 2018 Read more: What's next for Malaysia's disgraced ex-PM Najib Razak? While the charge sheets didn't mention the Malaysian state fund 1MDB, which her husband's charges relate to, or where the allegedly illegal proceeds originated, Rosmah was arrested by the anti-graft agency Wednesday after being questioned for a third time over alleged theft and money laundering at the 1MDB fund. Rosmah was allowed to post bail of 2 million ringgit but was ordered to surrender her passport and was banned from contacting any witnesses. Prosecutors had asked for bail of 10 million ringgit, citing the seriousness of the charges. Rosmah's designer handbags, jewelery and other displays of wealth were heavily criticized ahead of last May's election, with many questioning where the money for her lavish lifestyle came from. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32qcB A family affair Rosmah's husband, who is also out on bail, made a separate court appearance on the same day, in connection with some of the more than two dozen charges lodged against him. Najib's charges are connected to 42 million Malaysian ringgit that was reportedly transferred into his personal bank account — a bribe that is suspected to have come from SRC International, a former subsidiary of the 1MBD state fund. The multi-billion-dollar corruption scandal played a major part in Razak's shock defeat by 93-year-old Mahathir Mohamad in the country's general election in May. Read more: Malaysia election: People were 'disgusted with government's corruption' Following the election loss, a haul of cash, jewelery and hundreds of designer handbags worth up to $273 million was seized from properties linked to the couple in raids around Kuala Lumpur. The case sparked outrage in Malaysia with thousands of people protesting against Najib while he was in office. Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has launched a crackdown on corruption involving people in the previous government. A medical doctor by training, Mahathir led Malaysia from 1981 to 2003 and is dubbed the country's "father of modernization." A shrewd politician, he won five consecutive general elections, while deflecting challenges to his leadership of the United Malays National Organization (UMNO), a core component party of the ruling coalition, the Barisan Nasional (BN). The Malaysian elections must be held by August this year, with analysts predicting they will happen by June. It promises an unprecedented spectacle as it will pit incumbent Najib Razak against Mahathir, his former mentor, who had favored him and helped install him as PM in 2009. Mahathir quit UMNO in 2016 following the 1MDB scandal, saying it had become "Najib's party." Called a "dictator" by critics for his hard stance on dissidents and the press, and for curbing the power of the judiciary while he was PM, he attended a Bersih ("Clean") rally in 2016 organized by several NGOs seeking reforms of the current electoral system to ensure free, clean and fair elections. Critics also blame him for consolidating power in the hands of the executive during his tenure. Mahathir set up a new party in 2016, which then joined forces with Pakatan Harapan, a loose coalition of oppostion parties. Ironically, he had locked away some members of these parties before, most significantly, his former deputy, Anwar Ibrahim. The coalition has stated that if it wins the 2018 elections, Mahathir would be PM and Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail (pictured here), his deputy. Anwar (L), once Mahathir's heir apparent-turned-archrival, was sacked from his post as deputy PM, and later charged and found guilty of graft and sodomy. Yet, in their shared zeal to unseat Najib, they've now struck a deal, with Mahathir offering to secure a royal pardon for Anwar (currently serving a second sentence for sodomy under Najib's administration), easing the way for Anwar to become PM. Not all Malaysians are on board with this pact though. Some civil society members and opposition lawmakers blame Mahathir for engineering the very system he now opposes. This disquiet has spurred a new movement. #UndiRosak (or #SpoiltVote) that urges voters to either boycott the polls or cast spoilt ballots. But others argue that this will merely split opposition votes and empower BN further. Current PM Najib Razak's administration has been mired in scandals, most notably involving the state fund 1MDB, which is being probed for money laundering in several countries. However, a survey in December predicted that he is likely to remain in power given a fractious opposition and his government's efforts to redraw electoral boundaries that critics claim highly favor a BN win. The BN, which has governed Malaysia since independence in 1957, lost its two-thirds parliamentary majority after the 2013 elections. It also then lost the popular vote for the first time in its history to Pakatan Harapan. Meanwhile, the nonagenarian has taken to social media in a bid to court the country's younger electorate. But a poll conducted in August 2017 found that "seven out of 10 voters below the age of 30 in Peninsular Malaysia do not care about politics; two-thirds believe that politicians were not just untrustworthy, but also the 'main problem in Malaysia.'" Author: Brenda Haas law/ng (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)