"Meet the new boss, same as the old boss," sings Roger Daltrey in The Who's 1971 hit 'Wont Get Fooled Again'. Both lyrics and title seem to sum up the sentiment shared by swathes of the German media and an increasingly vocal band of players after another tame and toothless Germany display. "New start? Löw's team are continuing the World Cup story," wrote prominent German football magazine Kicker in the wake of Saturday's 3-0 loss to the Netherlands. As Germany slumped to a record defeat against their neighbors, the same questions posed of Löw after Germany's catastrophic World Cup defense were being posed again. Read more: Opinion - Löw must go Lessons learned? Is he too loyal to the players that were world champions in 2014? Where are the goals coming from? Are his tactics out-dated? Is this the end of the road? The last of these clearly irked the 58-year-old in his post-match press conference. "For me, or what?" he replied, flustered, with his 12-year reign once again under the microscope. "We need to move on quickly [to the next question], I am the wrong person to talk to about that." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36KZQ Perhaps then his boss, Reinhard Grindel, the man who oversaw the review in to the shambles in Russia that actually amounted to waving goodbye to a couple of minor coaches, could provide some clarity. Fat chance. "It was clear the team would suffer set backs after the World Cup," said the German FA (DFB) president. "It's important we stand together as a team on and off the pitch." Unfortunately for Löw, unlike Mr. Grindel not all footballers are politicians at heart. "If you always lose like this, it's no coincidence anymore," said Joshua Kimmich, after Germany failed to score for the fourth time in their last five competetive matches. Julian Draxler was equally cutting: "It's all too slow and too predictable," said the Paris Saint-Germain winger. Mixed messages But not all Germany's stars were singing from the same hymn sheet. Mats Hummels, one of Löw's trusted lieutenants, defended his team's recent displays. "In my opinion, we have not had a bad game since the World Cup but have not had any results," the Bayern Munich center back said. "I do not think we can be accused of much at the moment. We have a good attitude on the field, we are lively, we work, we play situations out. We're just missing out on our rewards." But, in a sign of the disunity and mixed messages that have come to define the Germany set up over the last six months, Löw admitted his team were all at sea. "You can see the confidence is missing after the last few months, we have lost our way," he said. "In the last 10 minutes, players have to take responsibility and not run around like headless chickens." Germany have won just one of their last five competetive matches The Germany boss has continued to keep faith with the core of the 2014 World Cup winning side despite the weight of opinion suggesting Die Mannschaft needed to move on after Russia. Michael Ballack's insistence that Löw "should say that things don't work anymore when you're so long with a certain team" in an interview with DW seemed to strike a national chord and Per Mertesacker, a key component of the 2014 side, then questioned whether the post World Cup changes went far enough. Is this real change? "They have changed a few players and a few staff were removed, but in terms of the big figures, they have stayed in their jobs," the recently-retired center back told the BBC. The lack of new blood on the pitch is a theme that much of the country's media has picked up on, with the likes of Leroy Sane, Julian Brandt and Niklas Süle again overlooked for established but under-performing stars like Jerome Boateng and Thomas Müller. "Germany is just a mediocre European nation," wrote Die Welt,  one of the country's major newspapers. "Löw must break away from his base of World Cup winners. He is slowly running out of arguments. He must react - the team needs new impulses." Assuming he's still in position, Löw has a chance to try and breath fresh life in to his creaking side on Tuesday, against world champions France in Paris. Should he fail again, with relegation from Group A of the Nations League increasingly likely, the questions and the pressure will only get more intense. The old boss only has a few days to learn some new tricks. His absence through anything but injury would have been unthinkable during Germany's run to the 2014 World Cup title. However, in recent months he has been out of form both for Juventus and Germany. Joachim Löw was right to leave him out of Germany's second group-stage game against Sweden. Now he's been left out of the squad for the latest international break. Having been ommitted from Joachim Löw's final World Cup squad at the last minute, Leroy Sane has ironically ended up being one of the only German players to come out of the tournament looking good. The Manchester City winger is in Löw's squad for France and Peru and could be a key part of the rebuild. After hitting the post twice after coming off the bench in Russia, Julian Brandt is one of the few German players who can look back positively at his World Cup performances. The 22-year-old has become an essential part of Heiko Herrlich's Bayer Leverkusen side and now, with his eye for a decisive pass, he should be just as important for Joachim Löw and Germany. Unlike his namesake in Leverkusen, Julian Draxler's progress in recent seasons has been less impressive. Having struggled to nail down a starting position with both Paris Saint Germain and Germany, the former Schalke forward has even been linked with a move to La Liga side Sevilla. Could a leading role in Joachim Löw's Germany rebuild help Draxler reignite his career? Marco Reus, on the other hand, is predestined to be a big part of the rebuild. Having missed both the World Cup in Brazil and Euro 2016 in France, the tournament in Russia was just the second major one of his career. The Dortmund captain still has time to win titles with Germany. After failing to make the 23-man squad for Russia, Sandro Wagner burned a lot of bridges as he retired from the national team, meaning a return is all but out of the question. That's too bad for Joachim Löw, as following the retirement of Mario Gomez, Germany could do with an out-and-out striker. Joachim Löw has given the 21-year-old Paris Saint-Germain defender his first call-up to the national team for the current international break, and he could play a key role going forward. Last season, he was Schalke's second-best in terms of tackles won - behind the veteran central defender Naldo. Now Thomas Tuchel is aiming to turn this diamond-in-the-rough into a star. With Sandro Wagner and Mario Gomez no longer available for selection, Nils Petersen has been given another chance to take the No. 9 role. He may not be a candidate to start regularly for Germany, but at Freiburg he has also proved his effectiveness coming on as a sub. For the moment at least, Sebastian Rudy has to go down as one of the losers following Germany's disastrous World Cup. In the recent past he had been one of Joachim Löw's favorites, in part due to his versatility. However, the coach wants his team to be faster in the future, which may have been a factor that led to him leaving the newly signed Schalke midfielder out for France and Peru. What a difference four years makes! Having scored the winning goal in the 2014 World Cup final in Rio, it's been pretty much all downhill for his career ever since, particularly when it comes to the national team. At 26, there is still time for him to make a national team comeback - Joachim Löw has said as much - if he can rediscover his form of old for Dortmund. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons