The Alternative for Germany (AfD) party faced growing opposition on Tuesday over a controversial scheme that allows students to report teachers who voice political opinions in the classroom. The far-right AfD's Hamburg chapter last month launched an online portal called Neutral Schools, where pupils can lodge anonymous complaints about school staff seen to be breaching political neutrality and criticizing the party. According to local media reports, the AfD also wants to roll out the platform in nine other states, including Bavaria, Brandenburg, Baden-Württemberg and Saxony. 'Frightening development' Teachers groups and politicians from other parties have balked at the idea. "They are organizing open denunciation — these are all building blocks towards totalitarianism," said Winfried Kretschmann, state premier of Baden-Württemberg in Germany's south. Read more: AfD publishes sex education proposal focusing on 'classical family values' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34STZ The German Education Union (GEW) and the German Teachers Association — the country's biggest teachers' union — also voiced opposition to the plan. "It's to be expected that a party that wants to ostracize dissenters is now creating platforms to denounce people who have different opinions," GEW board member Ilka Hoffmann told the Funke newspaper group. "Teachers should be scared. This is a frightening development." German Teachers Association President Heinz-Peter Meidinger called the portal scheme "an attempt to exploit children and young people and to instigate denunciation." Read more: AfD says German state, media favor the left — do they? Co-chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and said of an image showing a drowned refugee child: "We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes." Alice Weidel generally plays the role of "voice of reason" for the far-right populists, but she, too, is hardly immune to verbal miscues. Welt newspaper, for instance, published a 2013 memo allegedly from Weidel in which she called German politicians "pigs" and "puppets of the victorious powers in World War II. Weidel initially claimed the mail was fake, but now admits its authenticity. German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the former co-chair of the AfD told a regional newspaper in 2016. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings." Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border. The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel Höcke for his remarks. Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Pretzell, former chairman of the AfD in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and husband to Frauke Petry, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony made waves in early 2016 with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. Thousands of unaccompanied minors have sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) - the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" - the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. During a campaign speech in Eichsfeld in August 2017, AfD election co-candidate Alexander Gauland said that Social Democrat parliamentarian Aydan Özoguz should be "disposed of" back to Anatolia. The German term, "entsorgen," raised obvious parallels to the imprisonment and killings of Jews and prisoners of war under the Nazis. Gauland was roundly criticized for a speech he made to the AfD's youth wing in June 2018. Acknowledging Germany's responsibility for the crimes of the Nazi era, he went on to say Germany had a "glorious history and one that lasted a lot longer than those damned 12 years. Hitler and the Nazis are just a speck of bird shit in over 1,000 years of successful German history." Author: Dagmar Breitenbach Information or denunciation? The AfD won seats in Germany's national parliament for the first time in last year's federal elections after campaigning on an anti-immigrant platform. It is now the largest opposition party in the Bundestag. Bernd Baumann, a senior member of the AfD's parliamentary group, insisted the online portal had "nothing to do with denunciation." He said the AfD had collected evidence showing that teachers felt compelled to discuss their political view of the party at school, often painting "a very harsh picture of the AfD as radical, inhuman, cold." Katrin Ebner-Steiner, the AfD's top candidate in the upcoming Bavarian state elections, told the Funke group she would welcome the scheme in her state, adding that its main aim was to spread awareness about the neutrality law. For many Germans, the concept of informing on other people is reminiscent of dark chapters in the country's history, such as the Nazi era or the communist German Democratic Republic, when denunciation was actively encouraged. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3610n nm/rt (AFP, dpa, epd) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.