Aleida and Jan Assmann stressed the importance of collective memory and warned against "excessive patriotism," in a speech they gave to accept theGerman book trade's Peace Prize award in Frankfurt on Sunday. "In democracy, thought cannot be delegated and handed over to experts, performers or demagogues," the couple said, speaking at Frankfurt's historic St Paul's Church. Aleida Assmann, a 71-year-old literary scholar and her 80-year-old husband Jan, an Egyptologist, have both studied the question of how identity and consciousness in human cultures and societies are formed. Read more: Opinion: Frankfurt Book Fair 2018 is more political than ever Criticism of the AfD In Sunday's speech, the couple stood up against resurgent nationalist forces. "We can no longer seamlessly follow old fantasies of pride and greatness of the nation," the Assmanns stressed. To the scholarly couple, national memory is "not just a pedestal that makes the nation bigger and more powerful, but also a mirror of self-knowledge, remorse and change." On the debate over Germany's collective memory, Aleida Assmann referenced the AfD's attempts to reject Germany's cultural remembrance of the Holocaust, when party leader Alexander Gauland said that the Nazi period was just "bird shit" in the country's history. Read more: Nazi 'bird shit' and the limits of free speech in Germany "The nation is not a Holy Grail that can be saved from staining and desecration - keyword bird shit - but a group of people who also remember shameful episodes in their history and assume responsibility for the tremendous crimes committed in their name," she said. While history can be shameful, "the liberating memory we share with the victims" is not, the scholar concluded. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36T8X Defending democratic values In their speech, the Assmanns urged for citizens to form a basic consensus in democracy, based in the values ​​of the constitution and separation of powers. Those who do not adhere to such values, the couple stressed, cannot be at the helm of democratic institutions. "Not every dissenting opinion deserves respect," the couple said, drawing applause from attendees. In particular, the Assmanns were critical of those who currently undermine freedom of expression. They concluded that events such as the racially motivated clashes during right-wing protests in the eastern German city of Chemnitz this year were the kind of episodes that "paralyze democracy." Read more: Defining what it means to be German in a unified country Together 'from breakfast to dinner' Winning the prestigious peace award was an "overwhelming surprise," said Aleida Assmann. The couple has been married since 1968 and has always collaborated academically. "We have always wanted to work together," she said prior to delivering the joint speech. "Of course we talked to each other from breakfast to dinner," her husband Jan added. The Peace Prize of the German Book Trade is worth €25,000 ($29,500) and is one of the country's most important cultural awards, honoring writers, philosophers and scientists from Germany and abroad since 1950. The Assmanns have said they will use the prize money to support three initiatives that focus on helping refugees, two of them are in Germany and one in Kenya. jcg/aw (dpa, KNA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.