After beginning their UEFA Nations League campaign with a 0-0 draw against France in September, there is a need for Germany to put more points on the board to keep alive their chances of topping the group to book their place in the finals stage of the tournament in June 2019. DW has all the build-up ahead of the double-headers with the Netherlands and World Cup winners. +++++Refresh the page for the latest updates+++++ Wednesday October 10 One Bayern man for another Leon Goretzka's absence for these games has also been confirmed. The new Bayern Munich midfielder is struggling with a thigh problem and has been replaced by clubmate Serge Gnabry. The national team are training again today, looks a nice day for it. Tuesday October 9 Trapp replaced by Leno Germany's injury epidemic continues apace with Eintracht Frankfurt keeper Kevin Trapp the latest withdrawal. Goretzka's inclusion in doubt? The latest injury headache to hit the Germany camp involves Bayern midfielder Leon Goretzka. The 23-year-old has stayed in Munich to undergo more tests on a thigh injury and is doubtful to feature during the international break. Löw and Klopp clash over Nations League After Liverpool boss Jürgen Klopp dismissed the Nations League as 'senseless', Joachim Löw has leapt to the defense of the new competition.READ MORE: Click here to find out what the Germany head coach had to say. Monday October 8 Rüdiger and Havertz ruled out Joachim Löw is contending with a growing injury list ahead of Germany's UEFA Nations League ties against the Netherlands and France as Antonio Rüdiger (groin) and Kai Havertz (knee) become the latest players to drop out. Juventus midfielder Emre Can has been called up as the only replacement, meaning Löw will have a 21-man squad at his disposal for the double-header. Sunday October 7 Reus withdraws Borussia Dortmund's Marco Reus has ruled himself out of contention for Germany's UEFA Nations League fixtures. The 29-year-old has been in blistering form at the start of the season, netting four goals in seven games to help BVB climb to the Bundesliga summit. However, after his side's thrilling 4-3 win over Augsburg, the 36-time international underwent an MRI scan on his knee before it was decided that Reus would be treated in Dortmund during the international break. Friday October 5 Mark Uth wins first Germany call up The Schalke striker could become the 100th player to make his debut under Joachim Löw.READ MORE: Click here to find out more about the man who hasn't represented Germany since 2010! Germany squad announced There are few surprises in Joachim Löw's 23-man squad for the upcoming UEFA Nations League ties against the Netherlands and World Cup winners France, with Schalke's Mark Uth the only new face. Elsewhere, both Ilkay Gündogan (thigh) and Nils Petersen (shoulder) have failed to recover in time to earn a call up.