Thousands of Central American migrants, mostly from Honduras, attempted to force their way through the Guatemalan border with Mexico on Friday, only to be pushed back by Mexican riot place. Multiple migrants and police officers were injured as crowds hurled rocks at the security cordon imposed along the Mexican side of the border. People were seen passing their babies overhead through the crowd, while other women held their crying children to their chests as they pushed through the broken metal barriers and onto the border bridge connecting the two countries. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32EWj At the very front of the migrant caravan, some managed to break through the final barrier fence into Mexico before being forced back by police. Some claimed they had been teargassed during the fracas. Later, Mexican authorities allowed some women and children to pass through in a trickle. "We ask you to please name a committee to hold a dialogue with officials from the National Migration Institute. Don't continue putting women's and children's lives at risk," a Mexican official pleaded with the crowd through a bullhorn. In recent days, various groups of migrants have been converging on the Guatemalan border town of Tecun Uman. Thousands are fleeing poverty and insecurity in Central America, where for years violent street gangs have brutally ruled large swathes of turf. Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala rank among the poorest and most violent countries in the Americas. Honduras, for example, suffers from a homicide rate of 43 per 100,000 citizens. Emigrants from those states now make up the bulk of migrants caught trying to enter the US illegally every year. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2x81g Trump tell supporters no illegal migrants entering US 'on my watch' Following Friday's storming of the Mexican border, US President Donald Trump told a rally in Arizona that migrant caravans working their way up through Central American would not be allowed into the country "on my watch." "They are not coming into this country, they might as well turn back," the president said. Without offering any sort of evidence to support his claim, Trump also called many of the people criminals. Trump also echoed threats he had made a day earlier, saying he would be willing to use military force to halt the flow of migrants and potentially shut down the southern border. The legal ramifications of such a move remain vague. However, on Friday Mexico's top diplomat Luis Videgaray insisted his government would not cave to US pressure to detain migrants before they reach the US border. "Mexico's migration policy is for Mexico to decide," he said. "Our position, in essence, is to respect human rights and dignity and protect this group of migrants, particularly the most vulnerable: children, the elderly, pregnant women." Read more: US-Mexico border scandals sink bilateral ties to historic low Videgaray's remarks came shortly after he held talks with his US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Despite its tough rhetoric, Mexico has been keen to show Trump that it is indeed working to slow the stream of migrants. Previously, caravans had already advanced deep into Mexico before authorities made efforts to process the migrants. Now, the government has turned its attention to its southern border, where it has deployed hundreds of officers and riot police. Most Central American migrants travel on top of cargo trains, to reduce the risk of being stopped and deported. Buses are more often stopped by migration officers. Crossing the American border is a challenge. In case they cannot afford a "coyote" — a human trafficker— many of the young men consider carrying drugs as a means to pay for the border crossing that is controlled by drug cartels. Catching a moving train is not without danger: Alex Garcia, who used to be a farmer, lost his leg while trying to get off a moving train. He is recovering at a refugee shelter and doesn't know where to go afterwards. According to Miquel Angel (above) the biggest risk along the road is being kidnapped by organized criminal groups, like the Zetas. Most migrants do not carry a cellphone or a notebook, in case they are caught and extorted. The migrants try to find shelter along the route in one of Mexico’s 52 albergues, or shelters. In Apizaco they are allowed 24 hours to rest, except when they are the victim of a crime or accident. All four men in the picture have permission to stay longer, as they were either shot or otherwise physically injured during their journey. Sometimes the migrants have to wait for days for the next train. Delmin Flores (center), and his two cousins Alejandro Deras and Luis Deras sit in the sun for hours in front of the shelter. They were forced to leave their coffee-growing region in Honduras after coffee prices plummeted. At night, they risk being robbed or killed by organ trade traffickers. Hardly any children or women take the journey by train. The risk of falling into the hands of traffickers or being violated is very high. This woman and child are accompanied by the husband, who has tried the journey more than 17 times. Herdin Varga recounts how he was shot by a guard on the train. The bullets hit him in his arm and neck. One centimeter to the right and he would be dead. He's been given permission to recover in the shelter and is in the process of requesting a temporary permit to travel Mexico so that he can continue his trip by bus. The shelter was founded and funded in 2010 by the Catholic priest Ramiro Sanchez. It later turned into a civil organization, independent of the government. Before meals are served, refugees pray together. Many of the migrants are religious and believe that God will provide protection during their journey. If they've checked out of the shelter, migrants cannot enter again to spend the night. This rule has been installed to protect the safety of the employees who fear that the migrants may have been come into contact with human traffickers. "The shelter is for humanitarian aid, not for people making business out of it," shelter employee Sergio Luna told DW. This group of migrants boarded the only train that passed that day, but it stopped immediately after leaving the railway station. They were forced to walk back to the shelter and try their luck next time. Author: Sanne Derks (Apizaco, Mexico) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/sms (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)