Under banners: "Without good work, no good climate! We are speaking out for our jobs" some 20,000 mine workers took part in  demonstrations organized by the IG BCE and Verdi trade unions on Wednesday in Bergheim near Cologne. Environmentalists were also present in Bergheim to make their point IG BCE President Michael Vassiliadis has been a member of the coal commission since the summer. He called for a more respectful approach towards mine workers, akin to the attitude shown toenvironmentalists campaigning to save the ancient Hambach forest: "The actions of forest conservationists are given maximum understanding," Vassiliadis told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. "But employees' concerns are often ignored." "In Germany there are about 100,000 jobs dependent on coal-fired power generation," Vassiliadis said. The miners marched behind the banner 'We are speaking loudly for our jobs' Over the coming weeks, the federal government's coal commission is to draw up a plan to phase out coal-fired power stations, which will also take account of the loss of jobs. The timetable for the phase-out and the implementation of federal assistance estimated in the region of €1.5 billion ($1.3 billion) for the affected regions is expected by the end of the year. Energy giant RWE is still mining lignite or brown coal in three open-pit mines at Hambach, Inden and Garzweiler. It employs about 10,000 people in the mines and nearby power plants. The RWE power plant near Bergheim Environmentalists seeking to protect Hambach forest from destruction to make way for further expansion of the RWE mine were also present in Bergheim on Wednesday. The forest has been the scene of months-long mass protest and its clearing has been put on hold following a court ruling against RWE's mine expansion plans. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35LaA jm/rt (Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 