The Supreme Court of India on Tuesday allowed the use of reduced-smoke fireworks during Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, next month. Activists had petitioned the top court for a complete ban on fireworks as pollution levels rise in the capital are once again hovering in a dangerous territory. Read more: Diwali without firecrackers is like 'Christmas without Christmas trees' Each year, Diwali festivities leave the capital New Delhi and its satellite cities engulfed by a toxic cloud of smoke and hazardous levels of fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) — small particles that pose the greatest threat to lungs. The air quality is further worsened around this time of the year due the burning of crop residue in neighboring states, vehicle exhausts and industrial gases. A two-judge bench said firecrackers would be permitted during Diwali, Christmas and New Year, with conditions. Diwali, a festival commemorating the triumph of light over darkness, is observed by Hindus, Sikhs and Jains across South Asia. The festival is often celebrated with fireworks, the lighting of candles and cleaning one's home. But this year was to be different: Authorities in New Delhi wanted to assess how fireworks affected toxic levels of air pollution in October. On October 9, India's Supreme Court banned the sale of fireworks in New Delhi in a bid to prevent a repeat of 2016's "airpocalypse" that left the city's 20 million residents gasping for days.The only problem: The court didn't ban the use of fireworks, paving the way for a toxic haze the day after. After Diwali celebrations ended, amounts of tiny particulate matter smaller than 2.5 micrometers, which can reach deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream, soared to alarming levels. In parts of New Delhi, air quality readings hit 941, near the maximum measurement of 999. New Delhi, rated the most polluted city in the world in 2014 by the WHO, struggles every winter with toxic pollution. Environmental activists have called on Indian authorities to declare a public emergency due to the hazardous levels of pollutants in the air. Critics accused India's police of failing to adequately enforce the ban on firecracker sales. "Breathe nitrate and ammonia, homegrown, handmade," said environmentalist Vimlendu Jha. Despite the harmful levels of pollution hovering over New Delhi after Diwali commemorations, pollution levels were their lowest in three years, according to India's Central Pollution Control Board. Last year, Diwali coincided with crop burning, taking pollution levels to the extreme. "It was going to be hard to beat last year's level in any case," said board scientist Dipankar Saha. The fireworks would be allowed for a maximum two hours a day. Online sales have been banned. Last year, the supreme court banned fireworks over the festival after pollutants released by millions of firecrackers forced school closures. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2nOUP ap/rt (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.