As outrage over the killing of Jamal Khashoggi continues to grow, more countries within the European Union are reconsidering their weapons exports with Saudi Arabia, with Austria calling for an EU-wide ban on Friday. Austrian Foreign Minister Karin Kneissl, whose country currently holds the EU's rotating presidency, said that Khashoggi's killing was the last straw in a line of abuses, including the Qatar crisis and the "terrible war in Yemen." "If we as the entire EU stop weapons exports to Saudi Arabia, that will help end these conflicts," Kneissl told German newspaper Die Welt. She noted that Austria already stopped delivering arms to Saudi Arabia in 2015. Khashoggi, a columnist for the Washington Post and a critic of the Saudi regime and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, is believed to have been killed inside Saudi Arabia's consulate in Istanbul where he was last seen on October 2. EU lawmakers place blame with crown prince On Thursday, the European Parliament overwhelmingly passed a resolution calling on the bloc's 28 member states to halt weapons exports. EU lawmakers also called for an independent investigation into Khashoggi's killing, placing the blame with Crown Prince Mohammed, heir apparent to the Saudi kingdom. "The murder is unlikely to have happened without the knowledge or control of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman," lawmakers said in the resolution. Alexander Stubb, former Finnish prime minister and a possible successor to European Commisssion President Jean-Claude Juncker, told DW that the EU must take action if the murder was organized by the kingdom. "It's very important to be principled when it comes to foreign policy. You have to look at the whole situation in the Middle East, draw conclusions from that and then see what kind of relationship you have with Saudi Arabia," Stubb told DW, adding that situation was "not that black and white." October 2: Prominent journalist Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he had gone to obtain an official document for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. He never emerged from the consulate, prompting Cengiz, who waited outside, to raise the alarm. October 3: Turkish and Saudi officials came up with conflicting reports on Khashoggi's whereabouts. Riyadh said the journalist had left the mission shortly after his work was done. But Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said the journalist was still in the consulate. October 6: Turkish officials said they believed the journalist was likely killed inside the Saudi consulate. The Washington Post, for which Khashoggi wrote, cited unnamed sources to report that Turkish investigators believe a 15-member team "came from Saudi Arabia" to kill the man. October 8: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on Saudi Arabia to prove that Khashoggi left its consulate in Istanbul. Turkey also sought permission to search the mission premises. US President Donald Trump voiced concern on the journalist's disappearance. October 9: Saudi Arabia agreed to let Turkish officials search its consulate. Security camera footage released by local media showed a van entering the consulate on October 2, before going to the nearby consul's residence, further fanning conspiracy theories. October 12: British billionaire Richard Branson halted talks over a $1 billion Saudi investment in his Virgin group's space ventures, citing Khashoggi's case. He also pulled out of an investment conference in Riyadh dubbed the "Davos in the Desert." His move was followed by Uber's Dara Khosrowshahi, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon and a host of other business leaders. October 15: Turkish investigators searched the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The search lasted more than eight hours and investigators removed samples from the building, including soil from the consulate garden and a metal door, one official said. October 19: Saudi Arabia said preliminary investigations showed that Khashoggi died after an "altercation" and "fistfight" at the consulate. Turkey's ruling party has responded, saying Ankara will "never allow a cover-up" of the killing of the Saudi journalist. German Chancellor slammed Riyadh's explanation as "insufficient." October 21: Saudi Arabia admitted the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a "rogue operation," calling it a "huge and grave mistake," but insisted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had not been aware of the murder. Riyadh said it had no idea where Khashoggi's body was. October 21: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany would put arms exports to Saudi Arabia on hold for the time being, given the unexplained circumstances of Khashoggi's death. Germany is the fourth largest exporter of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the United States, Britain and France. Author: Ashutosh Pandey Germany backs ban Germany, who recently suspended all arms exports to Saudi Arabia until the Khashoggi case was concluded, offered support for EU-wide action. German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said on Friday that a unified position on arms exports would send a stronger message to the kingdom. "Therefore it is good if we in the European Union talk about a common position and I support the proposal from Austria," Altmaier told Deutschlandfunk radio. German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke with Saudi King Salman on Thursday to condemn the killing "in the sharpest possible manner." The German government has frequently been criticized for its weapons exports to Saudi Arabia, with Berlin greenlighting arms exports worth €254 million ($291 million) this year alone. Key exporters remain silent Although support is growing from within the EU for a unified position against Saudi Arabia — other major weapons exporters are hesitant towards an outright ban. France, the United Kingdom and Spain are all key arms exporters to Saudi Arabia. Read more: Saudi Arabia: 'Investors back when dust settles' Although French President Emmanuel Macron threatened to take action against those responsible for the murders, he has largely ignored protests at home over France's arms deals. Last year, Paris' arms deals with Riyadh totaled around €1.5 billion (1.7 billion). The British government is likewise under fire for its arms exports to the kingdom, which are worth around $1.4 billion (€1.23 billion) annually. As the UK is due to leave the EU next year, it is considered unlikely that London will jeopardize its business with the kingdom. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36vOL Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.