The future of Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel hangs in the balance as some 256,000 voters head to the polls in the European land-locked Grand Duchy on Sunday. Any party or alliance needs to obtain 31 seats to form a government. Opinion polls suggest Bettel could lose the vote due to his unpopular economic policies and declining support within his Democratic Party and coalition partners. A high growth rate under the coalition has put pressure on housing and infrastructure. According to polls, a quarter of voters were undecided in who to vote for. Claude Wiseler, a former literature teacher and the prime minister candidate of the Christian Social People's Party (CSV), is expected to pick up seats. Bettel became the country's prime minister in 2013 after a spying scandal toppled the CSV government of Jean-Claude Juncker, who is now president of the European Commission. Read more: Luxembourg installs Bettel, Juncker out The European Court of Justice is the supreme court of the European Union in matters of EU law. Luxembourger identity Voting is mandatory for Luxembourgers, but they account for only 52 percent of the population. A 2015 government proposal to allow foreigners who have lived in the country for 10 years to vote was rejected. This left almost half of Luxembourg's population without any political representation. PM Bettel has since lowered the bar to obtaining citizenship but this has not been universally welcomed, and it led to a renewed focus on nationalism and identity politics. Luxembourg is one of the world's largest financial centers with 4,000 registered investment funds, and 144 banks — of which 120 are subsidiaries and branches of foreign banks. In September, as part of its Brexit moves, the UK's Lloyds Banking Group was reported to be negotiating to set up a third EU subsidiary in Luxembourg for its life insurance customers. It is also the seat of the European Court of Justice, the EU's supreme court in matters of EU law and its interpretation across all member states. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2qiFd  Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 