Demonstrators chanted "We don't want white elephants!" as they took to the streets of Hong Kong on Sunday against the government's plan to build larges swathes of new housing on artificial islands. Nearly 6,000 people turned out in opposition to the proposal for new residential property that could accommodate 1.1 million people in the coming years. Despite an acute shortage of affordable housing in the notoriously-crowded Chinese territory, some protesters labeled the scheme "outright robbery" due to the huge cost to the public purse. Read more: Financial Times editor given one week to leave Hong Kong Ambitious and costly Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35QAr A government source told the South China Morning Post (SCMP) newspaper the cost of reclaiming 1,700 hectares (4,200 acres) of land and building new housing blocks could reach HK$500 billion (US$64 billion), although some campaigners think it could be much higher. SCMP said the amount was about half of Hong Kong's fiscal reserves. One protester, Mr Chan, complained that the Hong Kong government could easily take back some of the vast land banks held by developers and build new flats on existing land. "There are many ways to find land in Hong Kong, but (the authorities) don't want to cross the property developers," he said. Read more: China tightens grip on Hong Kong's pro-democracy movement Another protester, Lam Mei-yee, complained that the government would effectively weaken the Chinese territory's finances to backstop the huge project. "First, there's the environment. Second, they are effectively raiding the public coffers. You're reclaiming all this land but no one can guarantee these flats will ever see the light of day.” Environmental concerns Environmental campaigners have warned that marine life — including Lantau's famous Chinese white dolphins, whose numbers have plunged due to recent construction and reclamations, would be harmed by the project. Read more: First class gaffe: Cathay Pacific spells name wrong on plane Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32OF4 Hong Kong has one of the least affordable real estate markets on the planet, which has left those average and low incomes struggling to buy or rent decent homes. The city's leader, Carrie Lam, insisted that 70 percent of the new properties on the reclaimed land would be reserved for public housing. City officials are promoting the future metropolis of Lantau, which is linked to the mainland with a mega-bridge, as a gateway to the world and to neighboring Chinese cities. Hong Kong's international airport — also partially built on reclaimed land — is located just off Lantau. Infrastructure projects cause anger The government, however, has faced similar resistance to its new high-speed rail link to the mainland and the soon-to-be-opened bridge connecting Hong Kong with Macau and Zhuhai. While supporters believe the multi-billion-dollar projects will boost business, others claim they are politically driven and will blur the boundaries between Hong Kong and the mainland, as Beijing tightens its grip over the semi-autonomous city. Coming in as the ninth most expensive city is China's capital Beijing. Housing prices have been steadily increasing there over the past decade and international school fees are also expensive. The Mercer cost of living ranking is compiled to help multinational companies create compensation strategies for expat employees. The strengthening of the Chinese yuan pushed Chinese cities up on the list. Shanghai is the most costly city on the Chinese mainland for expats and the seventh most expensive city overall. According to the website Expatistan, monthly rent for an 85 square-meter furnished apartment ranges from $2,170 to $1,200 (€1,800 - €1,030). Mercer said the rankings show "how currency fluctuation and shifts in the prices of goods and services" can affect expat purchasing power. The capital of South Korea is the fifth most expensive city for expats. Foreigners and South Koreans alike can agree that coffee in Seoul is expensive. On average, a cup of coffee costs $10 (€8.60). The average price of a pair of blue jeans is almost $150 (€130). Mercer's survey measures the comparative cost of more than 200 items including meals, housing, transportation and clothing. The Southeast Asian financial hub is the fourth most expensive city for expats and appears on many lists of the world's most expensive cities overall. You will pay more than $100 (€83) for jeans – double the price in New York. Gas is also expensive in the city-state, averaging over $2.00 (€1.70) per liter. The Japanese capital with a population of over 9 million is the second most expensive city for expats. However, Mercer said that Japanese cities fell overall in ranking due to the weakening of Japanese yen against the US dollar. Still, rent for a furnished 85 square-meter apartment will range from $3,500 to $2,700 (€3,000- 2,300). In 2018, Hong Kong was the most expensive city anywhere in the world for expats. According to Mercer, rent in this global business hub is at an all-time high, which is concerning for expats with families. Hong Kong also topped the list for gas prices and only Seoul has more expensive coffee. Non-Asian cities on the list included Bern and Zurich, Switzerland, N'Djamena, Chad and Luanda, Angola. Author: Ayu Purwaningsih mm/rc (AFP, SCMP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.