German Chancellor Angela Merkel told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Thursday that Germany shared Israel's goal of preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear arms, but said they differed on how that should be achieved. "Nuclear armament must be prevented, Germany will participate very strongly in it," she said. "What we do not always agree on, is the way to achieve this goal." Merkel was speaking alongside Netanyahu at a press conference in Israel, just a week after he accused European leaders of "coddling Iran's dictators." The meeting represented a renewal of regular government consultations between the two nations after they were paused in 2017 when Merkel expressed her disapproval of Israeli settlement building in the West Bank. She said the Iranian threat to Israel had increased, as demonstrated by the presence of Iranian troops near the Golan Heights. "In this respect, we see the pressure and environment under which you live here, and this is very different from the situation in which we may be living in the European Union. I therefore expressly confirm that Israel must, of course, defend itself if it is attacked." Netanyahu paid tribute to the friendship between the two countries and repeated his opposition to the nuclear agreement with Iran, saying it handed billions of dollars into the hands of the government in Tehran, which promotes Islamist terrorism. The nuclear deal There had been no shortage of controversy ahead of the visit, with Netanyahu wideley expected to press Merkel and other EU leaders to follow US President Donald Trump's lead and pull out of the Iran nuclear deal. Speaking at the United Nations General Assembly last week, Netanyahu claimed that the EU had adopted a policy of "appeasement" towards Tehran, a word evoking how European leaders had failed to stand up to Adolf Hitler in the 1930s. He also mentioned the EU's "absolutely crazy" demands of Israel, including the call to stop displacing Palestinians for settlement building. Germany opposes demolition of village Ahead of her arrival on Wednesday, children in the West Bank Bedouin village of Khan al-Ahmar put up posters imploring the chancellor to stop the demolition of their homes. Merkel had previously voiced opposition to plans to raze the village. Israel maintains that the hamlet was built illegally and dangerously close to a highway. Merkel told Netanyahu that Germany was still seeking a two-state solution, and that the Israeli settlement policy made that more complicated. She said she would seek contact with the Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to discuss the situation in Gaza, and that she would try and get Palestine to join peace negotiations with Israel. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35p7O On anti-Semitism Merkel reaffirmed Germany's responsibility for a secure future for Israel. She admitted that anti-Semitism continued to exist in Germany, and in some cases had worsened. Merkel visited the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial on Thursday and was set to receive an honorary doctorate from the University of Haifa. In the Yad Vashem guest book, Merkel mentioned the "Kristallnacht" (Night of Broken Glass) pogrom, and said that it and the horrors of the Holocaust "gave rise to Germany's everlasting responsibility for this crime and to fight anti-Semitism, xenophobia, hatred and violence." The leader said that they planned to discuss trade and innovation, but concerns about rising anti-Semitism in Germany were also likely to be addressed. aw, es/ng (AFP, dpa, Reuters) On May 14, 1948, David Ben-Gurion, future first prime minister of Israel, declares the state's independence, outlining the Jewish story: "The people kept faith with (the land) throughout their dispersion and never ceased to pray and hope for their return to it and for the restoration in it of their political freedom." It was the birth of an internationally recognized Jewish homeland. While the controversial idea of a God-given land for Jews has biblical roots, the Holocaust was a close, powerful backdrop for the significance of Israel's founding. Nazi Germany murdered six million Jews across Europe, and those who survived the concentration camps endured expulsion and forced labor. The above photo shows survivors of the Auschwitz camp following liberation. That is the word that Palestinians and their supporters use to mark Israel's independence. About 700,000 Arabs living in Palestine at the time fled as waves of Jewish immigrants arrived to settle in the new Jewish state. The birth of Israel was the start of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which remains unresolved 70 years later despite numerous attempts. These land collectives, known as kibbutzim in the plural, were established across Israel following independence. Many were run by secular or socialist Jews in an effort to realize their vision of society. Tensions with its Arab neighbors erupted in the Six-Day War in June 1967. With a surprise attack, Israel is able to swiftly defeat Egypt, Jordan and Syria, bringing the Arab-populated areas of the Sinai Peninsula, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights under Israeli control. Victory leads to occupation — and more tension and conflict. Israel's settlement policy worsens the conflict with Palestinians. Due to development and expansion of Jewish areas on occupied Palestinian land, the Palestinian Authority accuses Israel of making a future Palestinian state untenable. Israel has largely ignored the international community's criticism of its settlement policy, arguing new construction is either legal or necessary for security. In winter 1987, Palestinians begin mass protests of Israel's ongoing occupation. Unrest spreads from Gaza to East Jerusalem and the West Bank. The uprising eventually wound down and led to the 1993 Oslo Accords — the first face-to-face agreement between the government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the representative body of the Palestinian people. With former US President Bill Clinton as a mediator, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin (left) and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat hold peace talks. The result, the Oslo I Accord, is each side's recognition of the other. The agreement leads many to hope that an end to the Israel-Palestine conflict is not far off, but peace initiatives suffer a major setback when Rabin is assassinated two years later. A right-wing Jewish fanatic shoots and kills Rabin on November 4, 1995, while he is leaving a peace rally in Tel Aviv. Rabin's assassination throws the spotlight on Israel's internal social strife. The divide is growing between centrist and extremist, secular and religious. The photo shows Israel's then-acting prime minister, Shimon Peres, next to the empty chair of his murdered colleague. Nazi Germany's mass murder of Jews weighs on German-Israeli relations to this day. In February 2000, Germany's then-President Johannes Rau addresses the Knesset, Israel's parliament, in German. It is a tremendous emotional challenge for both sides, especially for Holocaust survivors and their descendants, but also a step towards closer relations after unforgettable crimes. In 2002, amid the violence and terror of the Second Intifada, Israel starts building a 107-kilometer-long (67-mile-long) barrier of barbed wire, concrete wall and guard towers between itself and Palestinian areas of the West Bank. It suppresses the violence but does not solve the larger political conflict. The wall grows in length over the years and is projected to reach around 700 kilometers. Germany's current foreign minister, Heiko Maas, steps decisively into an ever closer German-Israeli relationship. His first trip abroad as the country's top diplomat is to Israel in March 2018. At the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial and museum in Jerusalem, he lays a wreath in memory of Holocaust victims. Author: Kersten Knipp