Groups of lederhosen-clad men and women wearing dirndls excitedly walk through the stalls and food stands at Munich's infamous Oktoberfest, lining up outside its even more infamous beer tents in hopes of getting a warm spot inside on a chilly night in early October. When asked whether they felt safe, particularly after a man died following a fight at a beer tent this year, women visiting Oktoberfest were quick to praise the high number of police officers and other security officials patrolling the festival grounds. When asked if they felt safe as women at Oktoberfest — they paused. Rape and harassment So far this year, Munich police have logged 21 cases of sexual offenses at Oktoberfest — including sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape. On the first day of Oktoberfest on September 22, police arrested a 25-year-old man from Munich after he allegedly raped a 21-year-old woman from Finland in the bushes on festival grounds. A few days later, an unidentified man allegedly grabbed a 43-year-old woman underneath her skirt. When she confronted him, the man smashed his 1-liter (1-quart) beer glass in the woman's face. Women can get help at a security point, although many do not know where it is Police noted in their "halftime report," released midway through the festival, that the figures are down compared with the same point last year, but the past few years have seen a rise in sexual assault and harassment reported at Oktoberfest. In 2017, there were a total number of 67 sexual assault and harassment cases at the festival, up sharply from the 34 cases logged in 2016. Authorities attribute the rise to changes in the law regarding sexual offenses in Germany, which was expanded to include groping and other forms of harassment. The changes came into effect shortly after Oktoberfest ended in 2016. "The adaptation of the law raised awareness in the population and also the employees of the tents," police wrote in their 2017 Oktoberfest report, adding that the changes increased victims' "willingness to file charges." 'Expect that it will happen' Many women who spoke to DW at Oktoberfest said they hadn't personally experienced harassment, or said they considered it part of the party atmosphere in the beer tents. Up to half of all sexual assaults involve alcohol consumption, according to research by the US National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. The responsibility for controlling drinking behavior often falls on women rather than men: They're told that it's their job to prevent harassment and assault. "You blame it on the alcohol and try to ignore it," a 27-year-old woman named Carmen told DW. "If a man tries to hit on you or grabs you, then you try to get out of his way and leave." "But you have to kind of expect that it will happen," she said, "especially the later it gets." Carmen and Isabella saw many cases of harassment and assault go unreported On-site help A security point has been set up especially for girls and women — although locating the site can be tricky. Most of the women DW talked with, even those who have been coming to the festival for several years, didn't know where to find it. Sichere Wiesn für Mädchen und Frauen, known in English as Safe Oktoberfest, has been helping women since 2003. The security point is a warm sanctuary for women and girls who've been separated from their group and need help getting home. By Wednesday night, 113 women had sought help at the site so far this year, according to a statement from Safe Oktoberfest. Most of the women were looking for help after losing their friends, but the center also noted a rise in violence against women this year. Five women sought help at the security point after experiencing sexualized violence, and three were victims of intimate partner violence at the festival. The initiative noted that "the actual number of sexual offenses is believed to be much higher, as only a small portion of sexualized violence is reported." Isabella, a 27-year-old visiting Oktoberfest, agreed that most women don't alert police or beer tent security when they're harassed or groped: Many just hope to get away and move on with their nights. "In the crowd, people ignore it and don't discuss it further," she said. "Some handle it among themselves, but most of it doesn't get reported after that." The first Oktoberfest, in 1810, actually was held in October. Today, it's still known as Oktoberfest, but opens each year in September. The reason for that is Bavaria's bad weather. It's even been known to snow in October — which would be a disaster for the festival. The world-famous beer celebration was moved up to September in 1904. To bridge the language barrier, it's a good idea to learn a few words in Bavarian dialect before going to Oktoberfest. "Servus" is a simple greeting. More difficult is "hock di her da," which you can say to offer someone else a spot at the table. If you have a communication block, try "host mi" for "do you understand?" And goodbye is "pfiat di," which is short for "may God watch over you." Dancing on the benches is not only tolerated — it's encouraged. But you shouldn't stand on the tables or take your clothes off. Another taboo is stealing beer mugs. Beware, thieves will be prosecuted. Nevertheless, they are still a beloved souvenir among many visitors. Each year, tens of thousands of beer mugs disappear. The really big half-liter mugs are particularly popular. You can show up in jeans and a t-shirt or in a traditional Bavarian outfit; just make sure your style is consistent. If you wear a dirndl, though, watch out: a bow on the left means you're single and a bow on the right means you're not. But if the bow is in the middle, you out yourself as a virgin. Only widows and servers wear their bows in the back. Not only does it contain more alcohol than your average beer, it tastes a bit milder and less bitter. That makes the beverage of choice at Oktoberfest — known as Wiesn beer — particularly dangerous! Some 7.5 million liters were drunk at last year's festival. This year, the stuff is being sold at record speed — even though the price has risen to €11.40 ($13.40) per liter. Author: Antje Binder (kbm) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.