Iran's Foreign Ministry on Wednesday said it had summoned Germany's ambassador to Tehran to protest a German court's decision to extradite one of its diplomats to Belgium. Bahram Ghasemi, a spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry, said he deeply regretted the German court's decision before claiming the verdict was part of a "staged conspiracy" to sever relations between Europe and Iran. He refused to provide any evidence or go into further detail about such an alleged plot. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32fVr Last week, a regional court in Bamberg agreed to hand over the Iranian diplomat, identified only as Assadollah A., to Belgian authorities. It is believed that he was part of a failed plot to bomb an annual Iranian opposition rally near Paris in June. He was extradited on Tuesday and charged the following day with preparing a terrorist attack, Belgium's state prosecutor said. Three others, all Belgian nationals of Iranian origin, are also suspected of planning the attack. A husband and wife team was arrested by Belgian police in June after they were caught in possession of 500 grams (around one pond) of 
TATP , an explosive that can be made at home from easily available chemicals. The fourth suspect was arrested in Paris in early July and transferred to Belgium. Assadollah A., who is normally based in Vienna, was detained by German authorities in the Bavarian city of Aschaffenburg in July on a European arrest warrant. He was on holiday outside of Austria at the time and therefore not protected by diplomatic immunity. Read more: Belgium charges couple for allegedly plotting terror attack against Iranian group Iran has denied accusation by France and Belgium that one of its diplomats could have been involved in any suspect attack. Last week, French authorities announced they had frozen assets belonging to Assadollah A., as well as Iran's Ministry of Security and Intelligence. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2xtbt Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/rc (dpa, AP, AFP, Reuters)