Bavaria's economic prosperity is largely to blame for the ruling Christian Social Union's (CSU) slump in popularity, according to the southern German state's former premier, Edmund Stoiber. Specifically, migration to Bavaria from the rest of Germany was the main threat facing the conservative CSU's parliamentary majority in Sunday's regional election, Stoiber told the German media group Redaktionsnetzwerk Deutschland. "In recent years, our economic success has seen a one-way migratory flow coming into Bavaria," said Stoiber, the CSU's honorary chairman, on Wednesday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/365jM "More than 1 million people have come to us from all parts of Germany in the last 10 years," he said. "Bavaria is top of the league in Germany. However, greater economic prosperity can also spur other reactions."  The most recent polls see the CSU taking just 33 percent in Sunday's vote. Such an outcome would mark a huge disappointment for a party that has historically governed alone in its native state thanks to a typical vote share of around 50 percent.   Since its founding in the immediate postwar period, the CSU has been the party tasked with representing Bavaria's regional — and generally more conservative — interests at the German national level. The party only runs in Bavaria but functions as part of a single parliamentary group with Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats in the federal parliament in Berlin. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2yqvB Possible coalition partners If the CSU wants to govern with just one junior coalition party, forecasts have suggested it would have to forge an agreement with either the environmentalist Greens or the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), who are slated to take 18 and 14 percent of the vote respectively, according to polls. Party officials have ruled out going into coalition with the AfD. Several CSU lawmakers have also cast doubt over whether the party will be able to conciliate its array of differences with the Greens, particularly when it comes to security and migration policy. Read more: Bavaria's Christian Social Union: What you need to know "I don't see how a stable alliance could be possible with these differences [between the CSU and Greens]," Stoiber said Wednesday. Otherwise, the CSU would need to forge a three-way coalition, most likely with the business-friendly Free Democrats (FDP) and one of either the Social Democrats (SPD) or the centrist Free Voters of Bavaria. Bavaria gets to top it all by being home to Germany's highest peak. The Zugspitze in the Bavarian Alps reaches 2,962 meters (9,718 ft) above sea level. Visitors, however, don't have to invest a lot of energy to reach the summit to enjoy the fabulous views. There are three cable cars and a rack railway to take you to the top. The largest people's fair in the world attracts some 6 million visitors and has spawned offshoots around the world. Beer in one liter glasses, women in Dirndl dresses, men in Lederhosen as well as music and dancing in all of the tents. The only genuine Oktoberfest is found in Munich - which has played host since 1810. The Bavarian metropolis is one of the most beautiful cities in Germany. First stop for visitors is the Marienplatz square with the Frauenkirche church and the New Town Hall with its antique Glockenspiel. Other attractions include the Hofbräuhaus beer hall, Nymphenburg Palace, the Englischer Garten park as well as many museums like the Deutsches Museum - the largest science museum in the world. Munich is home to Germany's most successful football clubs. FC Bayern home games are played at the Allianz Arena. And for those who can't afford tickets for the match can still feel close to Lewandowski, Robben and Müller by taking a guided tour around the stadium. The Romanesque Revival palace is the top attraction. Some 1.4 million people visit it every year - something the shy and recluse King Ludwig II who commissioned the castle probably would not enjoy. He had the castle built in 1869 as a personal refuge to allow him to escape into the realm of legends and fairytales. Today the castle of the fairytale king is admired by people from around the world. Translated, it would be the 'King's Lake,' and as such it is regarded as the king of the roughly 200 lakes in Bavaria: cut deep into the Berchtesgaden Alps, the crystal clear water creates a nearly fairytale atmosphere. Since 1909 the pilgrimage church St Bartholomä can only be reached by boat - an environmentally friendly electronic boat. The small town in the Franconia region is purely medieval. Tourists from Asia in particular love the timber framed houses and the town wall with its fortifications. Rothenburg was left poor and deserted in the Thirty Years' War, which is why it never developed much. Today it's seen a historic jewel that happens to be located on the Romatic Road - one of Germany's most popular tourist routes. In 2012 it was not Wagner's Festspielhaus Festival Theatre in Bayreuth, but the Margravine Princess Wilhelmine of Prussia's opera house that was added to UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites. This makes it the latest of the seven World Heritage Sites in Bavaria. The opera house, built in the 1740s, is regarded as one of the most beautifully preserved Baroque theatres in Europe. Nuremberg is the second largest city in Bavaria. Most people come in December to go to the Christkindlesmarkt, or Christ Child Market - one of the world's oldest and best known Christmas markets, visited by 2 million people each year. Mulled wine and Lebkuchen ginger bread you can get anywhere, but only here will you encounter the Christkind or Christ Child. It is not a myth but a way of life in the approximately 800 beer gardens, 600 breweries and 4000 taverns in Bavaria. Enjoy a traditional Bavarian "Brotzeit" meal - which directly translated means 'bread time'. This includes pretzels, meat and a relaxing beer in the company of friends. Author: Kerstin Schmidt dm/cmk (dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.