Berlin produced an absurdly hot and sunny fall day to welcome an estimated 240,000 demonstrators protesting against racism and demand social solidarity against the rise far-right populism across Germany. A 5-kilometer stretch of the capital city's center, from Alexanderplatz through the Brandenburg Gate to the Victory Column, had to be closed down to accommodate the huge parade, united by the hashtag #unteilbar ("indivisible"). The crowds were punctuated by 40 trucks mounted with loudspeakers, some delivering political messages, others music of all genres, as well as the old Berlin staple: the techno truck surrounded by dancers. The march was bookended by two concert events, the second of which was expected to stretch into the evening. All kinds of organizations joined in, including trade unions, NGOs, political parties (both mainstream and fringe), gay rights groups, schools, and theaters, carrying a variety of banners, each with their own cause to promote (Ryanair workers were a conspicuous anomaly), but all united behind the slogan: "Solidarity not marginalization." Read more: The faces behind Germany's far-right protests A necessary reaction The number of people who signed the original call to join Saturday's demo would have made an impressive crowd themselves — some 10,000 organizations and individuals signed the declaration last week, which began with a note of alarm at the current trend in Germany's political debate: "A dramatic political shift is taking place: racism and discrimination are becoming socially acceptable," it read. "What yesterday was considered unthinkable and unutterable has today become a reality. Humanity and human rights, religious freedom, and the rule of law are being openly attacked. This is an attack on all of us." There was widespread feeling in the crowd that such a mass statement was a vital correction in a country that has seen ordinary people joining far-right, even neo-Nazi protests, and a number of conservative politicians adopting anti-immigrant rhetoric. "There are people here who want to show that they don't support what is going on in Germany, including from established politicians, all this hate, this whole debate about immigration," said Rola Saleh, a social worker who helps young refugees in Chemnitz, where far-right violence made international headlines in late August. Criminalizing refugees Several protests have been organized in Berlin against racism and discrimination Saleh, who was in Berlin to give a speech for her group Jugendliche ohne Grenzen ("Youth without Borders"), told DW that refugees and people helping them were being "criminalized" in Germany. "At the moment a new police law is being planned in Saxony that would allow our advice center, where we give refugees legal advice, to be spied on," she said. "These are things that are happening now: deportation custody, anchor centers, the marginalization of refugees." "We don't have answers to a lot of the questions that the refugees ask us," she said. "After the conflicts in Chemnitz, a lot of the refugees are afraid and uncertain about the situation. They feel like they've been abandoned, a lot of them are trying to leave Saxony, or they're afraid they'll be provoked into criminal acts by a situation. If you feel like you live in a state where the police is not ready or able to help you, you start thinking about finding ways to protect yourself." Julia Naji joined Saturday's protest to represent Cycling Friends, a Berlin initiative that, among other things, runs cycling classes for refugees. "Today people will meet up and show that we should fight against racism and homophobia as much loudly and with as many people as possible," she told DW. She emphasized that most of the refugees she sees are happy living in Berlin. "Most of them feel quite welcome here and are astonished about the very small portion of the society being against them," she said. Naji, a German with a Syrian father, says the politics of far-right parties like the Alternative for Germany (AfD) are aimed at personally marginalizing her in her own country. "I'm a German, but I myself would feel excluded from any politics and any society that does not open itself to everyone," she said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34Qxw l Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.