The man who stormed a synagogue in the US city of Pittsburgh killing 11 people made extreme anti-Semitic statements before launching his mass shooting, officials said on Sunday. "During the course of his deadly assault on the people of the synagogue, [Robert] Bowers made statements regarding genocide and his desire to kill Jewish people," Scott Brady, US Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, told a news conference. The names of the victims were given on Sunday. The youngest was 54 years of age, and the oldest 97: "Joyce Fienberg, 75; Richard Gottfried, 65; Rose Mallinger, 97; Jerry Rabinowitz, 66; Cecil Rosenthal, 59; David Rosenthal, 54; Bernice Simon, 84; Sylvan Simon, 86; Daniel Stein, 71; Melvin Wax, 88; Irving Younger, 69." Probe at early stage Investigators said they didn't know why Bowers had specifically targeted The Tree of Life synagogue in a mainly Jewish area of Pittsburgh, adding that they have no evidence to believe he had accomplices. Read more: Opinion: The Pittsburgh synagogue attack is a wake-up call for Europe Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37HGU Earlier, in their arrest affidavit, police said Bowers told officers that Jews were "committing genocide to his people" and he wanted them all to die. Allegheny County medical examiner Karl Williams said that many shots were fired during the assault and that forensics teams had found gun casings everywhere. Investigators said six people were injured, including four police officers. The victims were found in three different locations within the synagogue. Bowers was injured and arrested shortly after his attack, when he was shot by members of a tactical police unit. He is being treated in hospital for gunshot wounds. The 48-year-old has been charged with murder, is facing 29 criminal counts, and could face the death penalty. The suspect is to make an initial court appearance on Monday, Brady said. Read more: Florida school shooting survivors launch US-wide gun reform tour Victims included the elderly Officials released the names of the victims, describing them as middle-aged or elderly worshippers. The victims included two brothers and a husband and wife. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto called the shooting the "darkest day of Pittsburgh's history," and demanded an urgent reform of US gun laws. "I think the approach that we need to be looking at is how we take the guns, which is the common denominator of every mass shooting in America, out of the hands of those that are looking to express hatred through murder," he told reporters. Saturday's shooting followed a spate of pipe bombs mailed in recent days to prominent political figures, mostly Democrats, including former US President Barack Obama, ahead of November 6 congressional elections. Trump called the shooting an act of pure evil and called on Americans to rise above hatred. Read more: Las Vegas police release 1,200 pages of documents on last year's mass shooting Merkel decries attack German Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman quoted her on Twitter as saying: "I am mourning the people who died in Pittsburgh, who obviously fell victim to blind anti-Semitic hatred." "I offer my condolences to the families and wish those injured strength and recovery. Everyone, everywhere must oppose anti-Semitism with resolve," Merkel added. Pope Francis led prayers for Pittsburgh on Sunday in St Peter's Square, telling his followers that "all of us are wounded by this inhuman act of violence." US authorities have intercepted several suspicious parcels addressed to top politicians in Washington DC, New York, and Florida, as well as the CNN's Manhattan offices. Police in New York said all of the examined devices appeared to be crude pipe bombs. Many of the people who were mailed suspicious packages are high-profile Democrats. One alleged explosive device was addressed to 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. It was intercepted at a facility near her home outside New York, which she shares with her husband, former US president Bill Clinton. Police also intercepted a suspected pipe bomb addressed to former president Barack Obama at his private residence in Washington DC. No injuries have been reported in any of the cases; some items were investigated but found to be harmless. American cable network CNN was forced to evacuate from its Manhattan offices after a parcel was found inside the building. The package was addressed to former CIA director John Brennan, who occasionally contributes to the network. Police eventually managed to remove the object safely. New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo reported that another parcel was mailed to his office, but this was later disputed by the police. The Democratic official described the wave of parcels as "terrorism" and said he would not be surprised if more were found. Police in Florida are examining a suspicious package delivered to Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). However, some sources reported the package was addressed to former Attorney General Eric Holder, and had Schultz listed as sender. The wave of suspicious packages started with US-Hungarian billionaire George Soros, who received a device believed to be a pipe bomb two days before similar parcels were discovered elsewhere. Police found the package at his residence in Katonah, outside of New York City. A day after US police tracked down the package directed to Barack Obama, several media outlets reported that a suspicious parcel addressed to his vice president, Joe Biden, was also discovered in the US state of Delaware. New York police discovered a suspicious package addressed to the famous Holywood actor Robert De Niro near the actor's restaurant in Manhattan. The 75-year-old film star has repeatedly slammed US President Donald Trump, calling him a "punk" and an "embarrassment to this country." FBI said they were investigating two suspicious packages mailed to senior Democratic lawmaker Maxine Waters. The congresswoman was slammed by Trump as "an extraordinarily low IQ person" in July after she called opponents of Trump's migration policy to harass his Cabinet members. Author: Darko Janjevic mm/jm (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.