US President Donald Trump claimed that billionaire investor and liberal donor George Soros was bankrolling the protesters converging on Washington D.C. against the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. He also accused the women who confronted Republican senators in elevators in Capitol Hill over Kavanaugh's nomination of being "paid professionals only looking to make Senators look bad." Trump did not provide any evidence to support his claims. "The very rude elevator screamers are paid professionals only looking to make Senators look bad. Don't fall for it!," Trump wrote on Twitter on Friday. "Also, look at all of the professionally made identical signs. Paid for by Soros and others. These are not signs made in the basement from love!" The accusations came just ahead of a procedural vote in the Senate on Kavanaugh, who has been accused of sexual misconduct. The senators on Friday backed a decision to hold a final vote on Kavanaugh's nomination. The vote could scarcely have been tighter, with the motion carrying 51-49. The final confirmation vote is expected on Saturday. Elevator protesters Republican senators have been confronted by protesters to oppose Kavanaugh's confirmation. Arizona's Republican senator, Jeff Flake, was challenged in a Senate elevator by two women who said they had been sexually assaulted. Moments later, Flake, much to the delight of his Democrat colleagues, called for a week's delay on the Kavanaugh vote to allow the FBI to investigate the accusations against him. On Thursday, several protesters who identified themselves as sexual assault survivors cornered Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah and asked why he was backing Kavanaugh. Hatch waved and told them to "grow up" as he entered an elevator. Kavanaugh's nomination by Trump to the country's top court has led to a divisive debate after Christine Blasey Ford, now a college professor in California, and two other women accused the jurist of sexual misconduct during the 1980s while he was a high school and college student. Kavanaugh has repeatedly protested his innocence. Republicans said the FBI, which submitted a 50-page report to the Senate on Thursday, failed to find anyone who could corroborate allegations by Ford. Democrats said agents constrained by the White House hadn't reached out to numerous other people with potentially important information. On Thursday, thousands of protesters gathered on Capitol Hill in Washington to fight Kavanaugh's nomination and protest against the FBI report. Over 300 people were arrested during the protests. ap/msh (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.