The brutal killing of nine sugar plantation workers on Saturday in Sagay City on the central Philippine island of Negros puts an ugly spotlight on the disintegration of a government land reform policy into violence and murder. The murdered workers were members of the leftist labor group National Federation of Sugarcane Workers (NFSW). They had set up tents to assert workers' claims on unused farmland that had been earmarked for redistribution under a government program set up to help poor farmers. However, the program has not been implemented effectively and farmers are coming into conflict with landowners. Read more: Land loss threatens indigenous communities worldwide After they set up tents on the Hacienda Nene plantation, unidentified assailants fired at the sugar workers, killing nine. Reports indicate that the perpetrators incinerated three of the bodies. The Philippine National Police said that the suspects may have been gunmen hired either by the landowner, other land claimants or communist rebels. "The group that entered Hacienda Nene had no legal basis to occupy the plantation, but we condemn the killings," Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) Secretary John Castriciones said in a press conference on Tuesday. "This is definitely unlawful and contrary to the position of our administration," said Castriciones. Reuters reported that Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte also visited the site on Tuesday, and Duterte's spokesperson said the president was "deeply perturbed" by the killings and had ordered "a thorough and impartial investigation." Failure of land redistribution scheme The Philippines passed a law in 1988 to redistribute public and private agricultural lands to landless farm workers NFSW chairperson Rolando Rillo said that the current hacienda system and poor implementation of agrarian reform leave farmers poor and desperate, with limited options to assert their right to land ownership. According to Rillo, under the current wholesale system, landowners, known as "hacienderos," hire groups of 10-15 farmers to till a small plot of land for a lump sum fee of about $20 (€17.54). On average, farmers only earn about $8 per week. "If the government were serious about agrarian reform, it would not have taken this long to implement the law," Rillo told DW. Read more: Philippines police chief shows affinity for Rodrigo Duterte's drug war Apart from demanding justice for the families of the slain victims, Rillo said that NFSW is calling for a sweeping increase of the daily minimum wage to $13 and the fulfillment of the agrarian reform program. In the late 1980s, the Agrarian Reform Law was enacted to redistribute an estimated 20 million acres (8 million hectares) of public and private agricultural lands to landless farmworkers. The law called for landowners to be compensated for the turnover, and farmworkers would finally own the land that they cultivate. The measure was intended to alleviate the massive level of rural poverty. However, it has been met with much resistance. Landowners circumvented the law and today, vast tracts of land remain in the ownership of landed families and corporations. "Land disputes will continue until true agrarian reform is put in place. Until then, farmers and peasant leaders will continue to die," said Rillo. Mimi Garcia holds the pictures of her son Richard and daughter-in-law Robilyn who were killed by masked vigilantes on motorbikes at their shanty home in Camarin, Caloocan city, on October 7, 2016. She faces the daunting responsibility of taking care of her two grandchildren while being jobless at the same time. Andres Fernandez and his son Wesley rest at an altar inside the family home in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. On October 4, 2016, two armed men in masks went inside the Fernandez home and pointed a gun at Wesley. They made him kneel as Andres tried to help. They responded by shooting at Andres first before killing Wesley. One of the children of alleged pusher Kenneth Trasmano lights a candle during the wake of his father in Manila. Kenneth was killed in a police undercover operation after allegedly fighting back on February 2, 2018. His family and neighbors claim the police forced them to leave their homes and get out of sight, and thereafter heard the gunshots. A child holds the pictures of her deceased father Joseph and grandfather Marcelo. Marcelo was killed in a police operation inside their home on July 22, 2016. Her father was rounded up and taken by the police. His lifeless body was later found "salvaged" along a roadside. The picture shows letters written by children who have lost either one of their parents in the drug war, as part of their counselling session at Our Lady of Lourdes Parish in Camarin, Caloocan city. Family and friends walk the funeral procession of Rogelio Gilbuena and his common law wife Jenny Royo, who were both found dead (several hours apart) in different locations in Navotas city, Manila. Prior to their death, the couple were taken from their house in Navotas by 10 men who introduced themselves as police. Families of victims of drug-related extrajudicial killings offer flowers to their departed loved ones during the Holy Eucharistic Mass Action in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. Her husband Luis and her son, Gabriel, were killed in September 2016. During their burial, she was stoic. The days after she had laid them to rest were different. "I began looking for them and could not stop crying." MA nowadays attends protest rallies calling for a stop to drug-related killings and justice for those who have died. She hides her face as she dosn't want to be identified. Author: Raffy Lerma (Manila), Ana P. Santos (Manila), Rodion Ebbighausen Peasant leaders targeted The Commission on Human Rights (CHR) has launched a fact-finding mission to investigate the killings. "The government must demonstrate its sincerity to hold perpetrators to account to counter the perception that a culture of impunity now prevails," CHR spokesperson Jacqueline de Guia told DW, adding that filing charges against the assailants would be an indication of a "firm commitment" from the government. De Guia admitted that this would be difficult, because victims' families will be hesitant to come forward until they recognize the government is sincerely trying to bring them justice. Agrarian violence in the Philippines is not new, but rights groups say it has been increasing in frequency. Read more: Traditional livelihoods in peril De Guia said that they have been receiving an increased number of reports on militarization in farming communities, harassment and surveillance. Based on independent investigations conducted by the human rights group Karapatan, there have been 142 peasant farmers murdered since the Duterte administration came to power in 2016. "Peasant leaders were targeted even during past administrations," Roneo Clamor, deputy secretary-general of Karapatan, told DW. "We have seen an increase in the systematic killing and targeting of the peasant leaders during the Duterte regime," he added. According to Clamor, the government's aggressive counterinsurgency program in response to collapsed peace talks with the Communist Party of the Philippines has resulted in protest actions by peasant leaders and other activism being labeled as plots to overthrow the government. "Any kind of dissent is now being tagged as insurgency. We have reports of people who are 'red-tagged' as being killed, disappeared or detained," said Clamor. Read more: Philippines to re-open 'cesspool' Boracay on Friday Philippines: Rodrigo Duterte to continue 'relentless and chilling' drugs war Breakdown of peace process According to military historian and security expert Jose Antonio Custodio, it is not the collapse of the peace talks that have contributed to the violence but the prevailing culture of impunity. "Peace talks have broken down or have been stalled in the past. The Duterte government, with its rhetoric that justifies killings as in the case of the war on drugs and the bullying of institutions, has created a culture of impunity that encourages violence," he told DW. Custodio also warned that the military's overgeneralization of all left-wing groups, including student activists, as part of the communist underground, is dangerous. "Given the current culture of impunity, it is possible that not only peasant leaders will be targets, but also student activists and minors. The military must be careful not to let its propaganda add to this," Custodio told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2VJsy