Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday opened the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau, the world's longest sea-crossing bridge that links the semi-autonomous cities of Hong Kong and Macau with the city of Zhuhai on the Chinese mainland. Construction began in 2009 but the project has been dogged by corruption prosecutions and the deaths of workers. Delays and cost overruns caused the final price tag of the 55-kilometer (34-mile) bridge to total around $20 billion (€17.5 billion). Read more: China: World's longest glass bridge closes Chinese President Xi Jinping at the opening ceremony The bridge passes through the Pearl River Delta, an important manufacturing region, and is set to cut the time taken to cross the area from several hours to 30 minutes. Authorities will restrict access to the bridge to drivers who have applied for special permits. China hopes the bridge will bolster economic growth in the region and promote integration between the mainland and the two semi-autonomous cities. Critics have denounced the project's impact on local wildlife. The bridge is designed to withstand earthquakes and typhoons and is made of 400,000 tonnes of steel Hong Kong and mainland China are already linked by a high-speed railway that opened in September. The United Kingdom handed over control of Hong Kong to China in 1997 under an agreement that the city would retain partial independence from Beijing until 2047. Portugal transferred sovereignty over Macau to China in 1999. On September 22, hundreds of passengers embarked on the newly-launched high-speed train at Hong Kong's West Kowloon terminus. The rail link, which connects Hong Kong to China's manufacturing hub Guangdong province, cost the authorities over $10 billion (€8.5 billion) and took more than 8 years to build. The first train left for the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen on Saturday morning. The train takes just 14 minutes to reach Shenzhen across the border in China – down from about one hour currently – and to Guangdong's capital Guangzhou in just over half an hour – about 90 minutes faster than current service. The new system aims to transport more than 80,000 passengers on a daily basis. Once across the border, passengers from Hong Kong can link up with a vast railway network that connects Shenzhen and Guangzhou to more than 44 destinations, including Shanghai, Beijing and the western city of Xi'an. "This is definitely convenient in terms of time," one passenger told AFP news agency, adding the tickets were expensive and the purchasing system was not very efficient. But critics say the new Hong Kong-China rail link compromises the city's semi-independent status and gives away part of its territory to an increasingly assertive China. Hong Kong passengers have to pass through Chinese immigration at the newly-constructed West Kowloon terminus. Opposition lawmakers say the move is a violation of Hong Kong's Basic Law. Hong Kong's mini-constitution, the Basic Law, guarantees the city its own legal system and civil liberties after it reverted from British to Chinese rule in 1997. The West Kowloon rail terminus, which is part of a new "special port area," is subject to mainland China's laws. Pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong are concerned over China's increasing interference in their city's governance and politics. The high-speed rail link is viewed by many as a part of Beijing's hegemonic ambitions. "It is almost like an imperialist attitude on the part of Beijing," pro-democracy lawmaker Claudia Mo told AFP. Beijing-backed Chief Executive Carrie Lam defended the new rail link, saying it will promote speed and convenience. There are also concerns about the passenger safety in the mainland zones. But Mr. Chan, a passenger, told AFP he was not "worried about the (mainland security) issue." What matters more to him is faster connectivity. shs/jm (AFP, AP) amp/rt (AP,AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.