The German government reached a "highly complex" agreement early on Tuesday on a "concept for clean air and the protection of individual mobility in our cities," in the wake of the country's diesel scandal. The compromise followed six hours of deliberations in Berlin, as members of Chancellor Angela Merkel's ruling conservatives and their junior coalition partners, the Social Democrats (SPD), sought to avoid city-level bans on diesel cars. The agreement will focus on retrofitting old diesel-engine vehicles currently on the road. The  ministers for environment and transport are expected to present the exact details of the plan later on Tuesday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35fAK Treading a fine line: The key challenge for the government was to avoid additional costs for car owners in the drive to lower pollution whilst at the same time protecting jobs in Germany's vital auto industry. At the center of negotiations was the question of whether the industry would be made to foot the full bill for a retrofitting of old cars, or if consumers would have to pitch in as well. Following a range of recent crises over migration and a former spy chief, the coalition government was keen to show it still has the ability to act. Read more: Angela Merkel's fate may rest on SPD solidarity Seeking compromise: In the lead-up to discussions, coalition politicians had also butted heads over the best way to deal with the polluting cars. Conservative Transport Minister Andreas Scheuer had called for automakers to provide incentives to diesel car owners to trade them in for newer, cleaner models. The SPD, including Environment Minister Svenja Schulze, favored refitting the old cars with new equipment. How we got here: It was the culmination of longstanding debate over the fate of German car owners whose vehicles were fitted with manipulative software. Auto giant VW was found to have rigged diesel cars worldwide to lower the apparent level of toxic emissions in a scandal known as 'Dieselgate'. After the scandal broke, and following data showing unhealthy level of diesel toxins in various German cities, German courts paved the way for city driving bans to be instituted. About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was September 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But it wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc City center bans: Hamburg became the first city to close off two main thoroughfares for older diesel cars this year. Stuttgart, the home of Daimler, is planning large-scale bans for 2019. In September, a court ruled that Germany's financial capital Frankfurt must also introduce a ban on diesel vehicles. jcg/rt (Reuters, dpa, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.