Borussia Dortmund 4-0 Atletico Madrid, Signal Iduna Park (Witsel 38', Guerreiro 73', 89', Sancho 83') Any doubts that this latest incarnation of Borussia Dortmund are the real deal can now be extinguished. The ruthlessness with which Lucien Favre's young and dynamic team tore one of Europe's most respected sides to shreds should send shock waves through Europe. With 20 minutes to go the game was still in the balance at 1-0, which had come courtesy of Axel Witsel's deflected strike from distance in an absorbing first half that Dortmund had shaded without dominating. Saul Niguez had hit the crossbar and was Atletico's main goal threat before Diego Simeone hooked him in the 70th minute. That decision proved fatal as Atletico saw their attacking impetus ebb away and Dortmund capitalized in dramatic style. The crucial second goal came courtesy of Raphael Guerreiro 11 minutes after coming off the bench, capping a thunderous break down the left instigated by another substitute, Mahmoud Dahoud, who fed Achraf Hakimi and his pinpoint cross was expertly steered home by the Portuguese. Axel Witsel broke the deadlock with a deflected shot from distance. Dortmund hit top gear Angel Correa hit the frame of the goal after Roman Bürki played his part with a fine save onto the post, but Atletico's desperation for a way back into the game left them vulnerable on the break, and no team are more electrifying on the counter-attack right now than the Bundesliga leaders. Those gaps were exposed for the third when Hakimi once again exposed space to slip substitute Jadon Sancho through. The English teenager, benefiting from the lack of an offside flag, slotted home in front of the Südtribune. Dortmund weren't done there though. A convincing victory became a rout a minute from time when Guerreiro found the bottom corner to complete an astonishing scoreline against a team who have reached two of the last five Champions League finals. For Simeone it's his biggest defeat as Atletico coach. Dortmund, meanwhile, are in dreamland. Borussia Dortmund rode their luck at times, but also took their chances when they came. As it happened: 90' FT Borussia Dortmund 4-0 Atletico Madrid — It's all over! Dortmund have beaten Atletico Madrid 4-0 in a memorable night for the Bundesliga side. A second half onslaught including three goals from the substitutes blew Atletico away. What a performance. 89' GOAL! Borussia Dortmund 4-0 Atletico — It's four! Guerreiro races through as the Atletico defense opens up, and the Portuguese finds the bottom corner. This is an absolute drubbing. 87' This has been some performance by Dortmund, who continue their stunning run of form in the Bundesliga and Champions League. What a performance by Lucien Favre's side. 84' GOAL! Borussia Dortmund 3-0 Atletico — Sancho scores! A couple of minutes after coming off the bench Sancho makes it three! Götze plays his part, his shot is parried by Oblak straight to Sancho, who taps in from close range. 82' Pulisic comes off having put in a decent shift for Dortmund, but Jadon sancho will surely feel aggrieved that he didn't start this game ahead of the American. 80' Sancho comes on for Pulisic. 78' Huge save Bürki! Correa hammers a shot at goal which Bürki palms onto the post. Dortmund get away with one there, and some great reflexes from the Dortmund keeper. 76' Dortmund flying now and they absolutely deserve to be two up. Some scintillating attacking football from them again tonight. 74' GOAL! Borussia Dortmund 2-0 Atletico — Substitute Guerreiro scores! Another quick break from Dortmund this time instigated by another substitute Dahoud, who releases Hakimi. His pinpoint cross finds Guerreiro, who doesn't break stride as he puts a first time shot past Oblak. 72' Correa straight into the thick of it, going down under a challenge from Diallo. But it was nothing more than shoulder-to-shoulder. 70' Atletico take off Saul, who has been their best player, and replaces him with Correa. 66' Hakimi, what are you doing? Marco Reus bursts through the Atletico defense and is about to pull the trigger but Hakimi, who was offside anyway, tries to get on the ball and ends up just getting in Reus' way. What a mix up. 63' Saul Niguez again the chief threat for Dortmund, this time sending a looping header onto the roof of the net from Filipe Luis' cross. 62' Guerreiro comes on for Bruun Larsen as Favre looks to tighten things up. 59' This time Juanfran gets to the byline and fizzes a ball across the Dortmund goal, but no one can make meaningful contact. 56' Dortmund really under pressure now. Things won't end well for Dortmund if they can't get out of their own half. It's been more than ten minutes of Atletico domination in the second half. 54' Atletico looking far more like the kind of team that has reached two Champions League finals in the last five years. They're playing with intensity and Dortmund are being pinned back. 52' OFF THE BAR! Saul Niguez sends a brilliant curling shot towards goal that crashes back off the bar, with Bürki absolutely beaten. What an effort by the Spaniard. 50' Saul Niguez controls the ball with his chest on the edge of box and sends a left-footed volley whistling past the near post. Very decent effort, that. 48' Atletico have come out strongly at the start of the second half. 46' KICK OFF! We're back underway... 45' HT — Borussia Dortmund 1-0 Atletico Madrid — A solid half from the Bundesliga leaders, who have defended well and taken their chance through a speculative shot from Witsel, who has been excellent. 44' Piszczek has suffered a cut under his eye and has gone down the tunnel for some treatment, although he hasn't been replaced with half time so close. 42' Atletico have seen plenty of the ball in this half, but struggled to create anything clear cut. 40' Dortmund just about deserve their lead, despite the fortunate nature of the deflection. 38' GOAL! Borussia Dortmund 1-0 Atletico Madrid — Witsel puts Dortmund ahead! The Belgian picks up a pass on the edge of the box from Hakimi, shifts the ball into space and drills a low shot that deflects off Niguez and rolls past Oblak. A fortunate finish, but they all count! 37' Delaney is unable to continue after picking up that injury. He is replaced by Dahoud. 36' Thomas in the book for a foul on Bruun Larsen. 34' Griezmann without a goal in his previous three games, incidentally. In fact, he's only scored four times all season, including twice in the Champions League. 33' Another sight of goal for Griezmann, who catches the ball on the half volley but sees it crash into the side-netting. 30' Fast break from Dortmund this time but Pulisic can't keep his left-footed shot down. Decent effort though, Dortmund are breaking at incredible pace. 27' Diego Costa gets the ball in a great position but hesitates before pulling the trigger and Dortmund can get back and win it off him. Dortmund having to work very hard against a team who can turn defense into attack at the drop of a hat. 24' Delaney has gone down clutching his shin. Mahmoud Dahoud is warming up for Dortmund just in case. 23' Promising break for Atletico but the final ball for Lemar is too strong. 21' Witsel goes for goal from distance with a low drive, but Oblak gathers it well. 19' Thomas rather cynically fouls Reus, and Dortmund's players and fans are calling for a yellow. Could have been quite easily for the Atletico midfielder. 17' Dortmund interchanging well when they go forward, but Atletico defending staunchly at the moment. 14' Diallo picks up a yellow for a foul on Diego Costa, who was launching a promising counter-attack for Atletico. Bruun Larsen is halted by Atletico's energetic midfielder Thomas. 12' Half chance for Atletico as Griezmann gets a sight at goal but his shot deflects out for a corner. 10' But Atletico deal with the ball into their box. 8' Götze given a free-kick after what looked like a robust and very good tackle by Hernandez. Referee Anthony Taylor says it was excessive force and gives Dortmund a free-kick in a dangerous area... 5' Dortmund finding their feet now, but struggling to establish any rhythm. Atletico not letting the Bundesliga leaders settle. 3' Atletico enjoying a good start and seeing plenty of the ball in the opening stages. 1' KICK OFF! We're underway. 20:55 The players are out and we're about ready to go in Dortmund... 20:50 Atletico have proved a good omen for Dortmund. Whenever they've faced the Spanish club they've gone on to win that tournament (Cup Winners' Cup in 1965/66 and Champions League in 1996/97)... Dortmund awaits... 20:40 And the visitors... 20:35 Here's how Dortmund line up tonight. No Alcacer, who has failed to recover from the knock he picked up against Stuttgart, and Jadon Sancho is on the bench, Christian Pulisic. 20:30 Hello everyone. Welcome to live coverage of the big one: Borussia Dortmund vs. Atletico Madrid. This has been a long anticipated contest, and a clash of styles as Lucien Favre's swashbuckling young guns take on Simeone's wiley old foxes.