On September 27, six people were killed in separate incidents in Kashmir, including three insurgents, two civilians and a soldier. The deaths triggered fresh demonstrations in Kashmir's largest city, Srinagar.  The upswing in violence comes after a spike in diplomatic tensions between India and Pakistan over the restive region. The Indian foreign ministry recently called off a meeting with the Pakistani foreign minister on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly session over the killing of several Indian border guards and the release of postage stamps portraying Kashmiri militant rebel commander Burhan Wani. Additionally, on the day India canceled the talks, insurgents killed three local policemen in southern Kashmir. Read more: India and Pakistan clash in UN over terror support The announcement of the meeting between the nuclear-armed South Asian countries had been considered an encouraging sign restarting derailed talks. India and Pakistan have not held talks since 2015, a year after the Narendra Modi-led BJP came into power in India. "Having talks between the two countries provides a way for ending the violence. Until there is dialogue, the violence won't stop," Sheikh Showkat Hussain, an academic in Kashmir, told DW. Pakistani army soldiers gather in 2016 near the Line of Control (LOC), dividing Kashmir between Pakistan and India Dialogue instead of bloodshed Weary of the day-to-day bloodshed, residents say they want an end to conflict. "In the past two years, not a single day has passed without killings or gunfights. We are fed up of all this now. The two countries don't care about the people dying here every day," said Mukhtar Ahmad, a resident of south Kashmir's Shopian. "The war here is getting dirtier and no one talks about it." Since 1989, Muslim insurgents have been fighting Indian forces in the Muslim-majority restive region, calling for a merger with Pakistan or an independent state. Read more: The Islamization of Kashmir's separatist movement India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence in 1947 over Kashmir, which they both claim in full but the rule in part. India accuses Pakistan of training and arming the rebels in the portion it controls and sending them to the Indian side, a claim its neighbor denies.The protracted insurgency in Kashmir has claimed tens of thousands of lives. Parvin Sawhney, a New-Delhi based defense expert, told DW that India has no alternative but to talk to Pakistan. He said that killings in Kashmir will continue in the absence of political outreach, adding that New Delhi is not showing any interest in dialogue. Read more:Why Kashmir is still reeling from rebel Burhan Wani's death "Before we are pushed into a situation where India has no choice, we must start a dialogue," he said. Contrary to the tough stance of New Delhi over talks with Pakistan, the region's pro-India political parties support dialogue. "Continuation of the dialogue between two countries is the only way available to settle all disputes," Farooq Abdullah, the senior leader of National Conference party, which has ruled the region most of the past seven decades, told DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zcHl Litany of violence The ongoing conflict in the region is posing a fresh challenge as insurgents are increasingly targeting police forces. On the early morning of September 21, insurgents raided nearly a dozen homes of policemen in two villages of south Kashmir and abducted three, whose bullet-riddled bodies were recovered 30 minutes after their abduction. On the same day, the Indian forces killed five suspected militants. In the past several months, militants have abducted and tortured to death many local policemen. This year more than 30 local policemen, most of them hailing from the districts of south Kashmir, have been killed. Read more: Kashmir violence: Has Modi's policy failed? Family members of police are also targeted. On the evening of August 30, 25-year-old Nasir Ahmad Mir was walking toward his friend's house in Midoora Village of Tral in the southern part of Indian-administered Kashmir when masked men blindfolded him and bundled him into a car. Mir's father works as a cook with the region's police department" "For half an hour the car continued to move. I had no idea what was happening, I could not get an idea where I was," Mir told DW. "When the men reached a dense forest, I could sense the situation. They removed the cover from my eyes." Mir says the rebels offered him snacks, juice, and warm clothing as they spent the night in a forest, somewhere in the southern part of Kashmir. "They told me that they don't want to harm me but they were forced to do so because their families were being targeted by the security forces," he said, adding that the captors recorded him on video and made him appeal to the  police and army in Kashmir not to harass their family members. Mir was freed after 48 hours. An Indian policeman takes cover during protests in Srinagar, June 2018 A tough place to work In job-starved Kashmir, the role of the police is much more complex than just fighting the insurgency. Being the second largest employer, the region's police force has a capacity of around 90,000 policemen, and 31,000 Special Police Officers (SPO) and temporary employees. What's worrying for the authorities is that a large number of these policemen, 20,000, hail from the volatile districts of the southern part of Kashmir, the rebel stronghold. Read more: Shujaat Bukhari: Flashpoint Kashmir and a fearless journalist's murder What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about? After the spree of killings, two dozen SPOs announced their resignation in video messages posted on the social media. The Indian Home Ministry denied such resignations and called it "propaganda". The authorities also suspended the internet in southern Kashmir, to prevent videos from spreading. Rafi Ahmad Mir, spokesperson of pro-India, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said that the dialogue is the only way forward to find a solution to the conflict where civilian causalities have increased. "Unfortunately, the Indian government says one thing and does something else on the ground," Ahmad Mir said. The Indian military has launched a fresh offensive against armed rebels in Kashmir, surrounding at least 20 villages in Shopian district. New Delhi accuses Islamabad of backing the militants, who cross over the Pakistani-Indian "Line of Control" and launch attacks on India's paramilitary forces. India said Wednesday it would retaliate to the killings of its troops by Pakistani military. Islamabad denies allegations that its border forces killed and mutilated the bodies of Indian soldiers on Monday. "The government demands that Pakistan take immediate action against its soldiers and commanders responsible for this heinous act," said Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar. Since 1989, Muslim insurgents have been fighting Indian forces in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir - a region of 12 million people, about 70 percent of whom are Muslim. India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence in 1947 over Kashmir, which they both claim in full but rule in part. The security situation in the Indian part of Kashmir has been volatile since the killing of Burhan Wani, a young separatist leader, in July last year. Protests against Indian rule and clashes between separatists and soldiers have claimed hundreds of lives since then. In September, Islamist militants killed at least 17 Indian soldiers and wounded 30 in India-administered Kashmir. The Indian army said the rebels had infiltrated the Indian part of Kashmir from Pakistan, with initial investigations suggesting that the militants belonged to Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad group, which has been active in Kashmir for over a decade. Some Indian civil society members believe New Delhi cannot exonerate itself from responsibility by accusing Islamabad of creating unrest in the valley. A number of rights organizations demand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government reduce the number of troops in Kashmir and let the people decide their fate. Indian authorities banned a number of social media websites in Kashmir after video clips showing troops committing grave human rights violations went viral on the Internet. One such video that showed a Kashmiri protester tied to an Indian army jeep - apparently as a human shield - generated outrage on social media. Ahead of his official visit to New Delhi, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan advocated a "multilateral" solution to the Kashmir dispute. During an interview, Erdogan expressed his concern at the continuing stand-off between India and Pakistan on the Kashmir region. India dismissed his remarks and said the Kashmir dispute could only be resolved bilaterally between New Delhi and Islamabad. Those in favor of an independent Kashmir want Pakistan and India to step aside and let the Kashmiri people decide their future. "It is time India and Pakistan announce the timetable for withdrawal of their forces from the portions they control and hold an internationally supervised referendum," Toqeer Gilani, the president of Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front in Pakistani Kashmir, told DW. But most Kashmir observers don't see it happening in the near future. They say that while the Indian strategy to deal strictly with militants and separatists in Kashmir has partly worked out, sooner or later New Delhi will have to find a political solution to the crisis. Secession, they say, does not stand a chance. Author: Shamil Shams