Dortmund 1-1 Hertha Berlin (Sancho 27' - Kalou 41') 51' Piszczek heads strongly towards goal but it's easy for Jarstein. Dortmund could with a chance or two of their own to feel like they're still in this. 50' CHANCE! Hertha again! Hakimi gets fooled by Lazaro, who slips in Darida. The sub leans back when he hits it, leaving his shot from the angle with no chance of going in. Chances here... 48' CHANCE! Neat interplay down the left (what is it about that side in this game) sees a cross find Kalou at the back post but his ambitious attempt to take the ball first time ends with a volley well over the bar. What a goal that would have been... 46' Dortmund get us started. Darida replaces Skjelbred, who has a foot issue it seems. BIG second half coming up. HALFTIME Dortmund could have been up by more after a strong start, but are level after Hertha took their only real chance of the game. A brilliant second half lies in ahead! Other scores: Mainz 0-1 Bayern (Goretzka 39') Düsseldorf 0-1 Wolfsburg (Weghorst pen. 41') Hannover 0-1 Augsburg (Khedira 8') 45' Another decent cross from Mittelstädt from the left is nearly met by Ibisevic at the near post, but Dortmund clear. Just as Dardai's charges start to come into their own, it's halftime. 41' GOAL! 1-1 Hertha Berlin (Kalou) And just like, it's all square! Maxi Mittelstädt nips in to cut out a Dahoud pass and then delivers a long diagonal pass for Salomon Kalou to run on to. He takes it down (with a leaning arm) and bravely pokes home as Dortmund's defense and Bürki descend on him. It crawls over the line and the Champions League winner lies on the ground with a big smile on his face. What a game this is! 39' Hertha have the ball a bit now and are looking to slow it down a bit. A few exchanges of possession here and there, but for the first time the game has gone down a tempo. It had to really, given the furious start we enjoyed. Duda curls just wide as Hertha enjoy a rare roam forward. Don't think Bürki would have got there... 35' Hakimi shields off Ibisevic, but clatters Bürki in the process. The keeper drops the ball as a result and Ibisevic goes sniffing around for a rebound, but Bürki gets on it again. A few shakes of the head later and we're back underway again. 33' Dortmund haven't calmed since the goal, which is probably a good thing (remember the Augsburg game?). Hertha still very much in the game, though. A fascinating encounter. Next goal feels, all cliches aside, crucial to deciding the outcome of this game. 27' GOAL! 1-0 Dortmund (Sancho) Nine minutes after being denied by an offside flag, Jadon Sancho does score! Dortmund break into a 3-on-1 as Hertha try to defend high up the pitch. Mario Götze drives forward and looks to have held onto it too long, but his pass is perfectly placed to split Hertha's defender and Jarstein, leaving Sancho a chance to sneak it in at the near corner. He does. 1-0 Dortmund and you have to say it's deserved. 25' CHANCE! Reus gets down the left again and again Hertha can't handle it. He looks to find Sancho at the back post, but Hertha clear it only for the clearance to deflect off Hakimi and over the open goal. All a bit frantic. Hertha have got to find a way to stop their right side from being exposed. 23' The sound in the Westfalen feels off, like a hang sense of anticipation without knowing what of. Ibisevic is booked for a late tackle on Witsel. The game is still very entertaining, but the current mood feels a little strange. 18' NO GOAL! Well. That is a shame. Jadon Sancho scores a brilliant flicked goal at the near post, but it seems that Marco Reus was offside in the build-up and so VAR has pulled this one back. Took a while, but we're back at 0-0. 16' A bit of a weird feeling in the stadium right about now. Seems like everyone is watching the away block, and the football is just happening on the side. Then Hakimi (who else in this game) curls a brilliant effort just past the post. Jarstein must have got a touch, but the corner comes to nothing. 12' This is as high tempo as expected, but Hertha Berlin have kept themselves well positioned. Apparently, police have had to step in near the away block where some scuffles have broken out. Not sure if the referee is going to stop play. 9' Hakimi gets booked as he stops Ondrej Duda from breaking away. Clear that is how Hertha will look to play it. Moments later, Hakimi loses the ball near the box, Ibisevic wins a corner which leads to a Hertha header that Bürki saves. So far a perfect example of the down side of Hakimi's defensive play. 5' CHANCE! Once again Dortmund come down the left and Reus finds Sancho after pulling Jarstein out of position but the English teenager is denied by a sliding Karim Rekik. A lot of joy down the left so far for BVB. 3' A slight delay to kick off because of some pyrotechnics from the Hertha fans, but when we do get underway Dortmund find a way through the smoke. Achraf Hakimi gets to the end of the move in familiar fashion on the left, but stumbles (maybe because of the smoke?) and fires over. 1' Dortmund get us underway in a sold out Westfalenstadion. They've won the last four in a row and scored 18 goals in that time. More of the same today? Let's find out. - Just to let you know what's happening elsewhere in the Bundesliga today: Mainz vs. Bayern Munich Hannover vs. Augsburg Düsseldorf vs. Wolfsburg Hoffenheim vs. Stuttgart (late game) Plenty of action to enjoy if Dortmund isn't your bag, especially Bayern who are keen to get as far away from fourth as quickly as possible. - Lucien Favre says to Sky Sports Hertha's choice to play a back five will make life difficult for his side, but that he is not surprised by the decision. When asked whether this is the best Marco Reus of all time, Favre simply replies: "He was always good, Reus." Never change Lucien, never change. - Pal Dardai is in a good mood ahead of the game. He tells Sky Sports that his side have been working on the back five system and that it should help them defend higher up the pitch better. Dardai also said he wants to win and wants his lads to play the football that has made them so successful this season. Up for it then. - Teams are in! Jadon Sancho returns to the starting XI today, as do Raphael Guerreiro and Mo Dahoud. Hertha's team looks like a solid bank of five and two holding midfielders. Clear to see what Pal Dardai is hoping for. Dortmund XI: Bürki – Piszczek, Zagadou, Diallo, Hakimi – Witsel, Dahoud – Sancho, Reus, Guerreiro – Götze Hertha Berlin XI: Jarstein - Mittelstädt, Rekik, Lustenberger, Stark, Lazaro - Maier, Skjelbred - Duda, Ibisevic, Kalou - Good afternoon! After that breathless performance against Atletico Madrid, Borussia Dortmund return to domestic action against a side that beat Bayern Munich earlier in the season. Can Hertha Berlin upset the odds again and beat the only undefeated side in the Bundesliga? Oh and if you want to get involved in all the talk on the matchday, either head over to our Facebook or Twitter to join in the debate.