German punk band Feine Sahne Fischfilet has lashed out at the Bauhaus Foundation after it canceled an upcoming concert, citing threats from right-wing groups.  The band was scheduled to perform at the Bauhaus Dessau building in the eastern town of Dessau-Rosslau on November 6. But when far-right activists called for protests on social media, the foundation said it could not let the gig go ahead because it did not want to create a space for political agitation and aggression. Culture and rights groups have criticized the decision, while Feine Sahne Fischfilet accused the venue of bowing to pressure from the local neo-Nazi scene. The band, known for its sometimes controversial left-wing views, said in a statement on its Facebook page that the cancellation set "new standards in wretchedness." Read more: Chemnitz rocks against the far-right Feine Sahne Fischfilet performed before thousands of fans at an anti-racism concert in Chemnitz Concert to go ahead "When we and many other people back off straight away from every small intimidation and call off every concert that drives Nazis crazy, then pretty much nothing would be allowed," the band wrote. The musicians added the concert would still go ahead in Dessau-Rosslau, but at a different venue. The Bauhaus was a renowned German art and design school that was set up in three cities — Berlin, Dessau, and Weimar — between 1919 and 1933. It was closed by its own leadership under pressure from the Nazis. Read more: The legacy of Bauhaus 100 years on More than 65,000 people turned out for the #wirsindmehr (literally "we are more") concert in Chemnitz to protest against neo-Nazi violence. Speaking at the start of the show, organizers said they wanted to show there was "no place in Chemnitz for Nazis." The lineup included a mix of local Chemnitz bands and was headlined by one of Germany's most famous punk bands. The concert came after days of far-right anti-migrant protests took hold of the eastern German city following the death of a 35-year-old German man. Daniel H. was stabbed to death in the early hours of Agust 25, allegedly by a Syrian and an Iraqi national. Punters waved colorful signs with messages of welcome and love as they walked into the concert. The show opened with a minute of silence in honor of Daniel H., while volunteers collected donations to be split between the victim's family and anti-racism initiatives in Chemnitz. The line-up catered for what was a mostly young crowd, with acts including punk act Feine Sahne Fischfilet, rappers Trettman and Marteria & Casper, and indie rockers Kraftklub. "We're not naive. We're not laboring under the illusion that you hold a concert and the world is saved," said Kraftklub singer Felix Brummer. But it's "important to show that you're not alone," he added. One of Germany's most famous punk bands, Die Toten Hosen, headlined the show. "This is not about the fight between right and left, it's about basic decency," said lead singer Campino. "And it is very important to stop this conduct while it is a snowball and before it becomes an avalanche," he added. Protecting artistic freedom German Culture Minister Monika Grütters said the Bauhaus should never "create the impression that pressure from the right-wing extremist scene is enough to prevent a concert." Dark periods of German history have taught us that protecting artistic freedom is crucial, she added. "That's why we have to demand that everyone involved take on this responsibility," she said. But Grütters also pointed out that Feine Sahne Fischfilet had in the past been monitored by the security services because some of their lyrics suggest "left-wing extremist tendencies." Read more: Foundation laid for new Bauhaus museum in Dessau Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36L3M The German Cultural Council called the cancellation a scandal. "Fear of right-wing protests — a foundation that preserves the Bauhaus legacy should know that [fear] must never gain the upper hand," the council's managing director, Olaf Zimmermann, said on Twitter. However, Rainer Robra, the culture minister in the state of Saxony-Anhalt where Dessau-Rosslau is located, defended Bauhaus' decision, saying the institution was not compatible with political clashes. Read more: Opinion: Two seconds of Kraftwerk beat, and a verdict for artistic freedom Feine Sahne Fischfilet performed at a major concert in Chemnitz in September in a show of solidarity against the right-wing riots that shook the eastern city following the death of a German man, allegedly at the hands of migrants. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32Zmq nm/cmk (epd, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.