On October 5, 2017, The New York Times published the article "Harvey Weinstein Paid Off Sexual Harassment Accusers for Decades." Several female actors claimed that Hollywood's most powerful movie mogul had sexually abused and coerced them. Many actors' careers were only made possible by being in the good graces of the powerful producer. Everyone in the industry seemed to know about what was going on, but it was deliberately overlooked. October 15, 2017: Ten days later, Actress Alyssa Milano tweeted this sentence: And tens of thousands took up her call. Far beyond Hollywood's glimmering lights, all over the world, women who had experienced similar violence made their voices heard under #MeToo. Men as well. The hashtag was used some 200,000 times on Twitter in just the first day. By day two, that number had risen to more than half a million. Women and men briefly described what had happened to them. Milano received answers to her post that were shocking, even despite — or perhaps because of — their brevity: "I was nine…" Women wrote about grandfathers, stepfathers, bosses, and neighbors. And pain — pain that would not go away even as the years went by. The hashtag #MeToo started trending on Twitter in more than 85 countries, spurring offshoots in other languages. Victims revealed cases from the music industry, as well as from politics and the business world. Names such as George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Donald Trump were heard, but high-ranking politicians in other countries also were accused. Harvey Weinstein has been accused by dozens of women of sexual harassment or sexual assaults, including rape. Under investigation by police departments in New York, London, Beverly Hills and Los Angeles, Weinstein denies all allegations of non-consensual sex, but apologized for causing "a lot of pain." The case prompted many other women to come forward. PBS and CBS host Charlie Rose is accused by several women of unwanted sexual advances, walking naked in front of them or making lewd phone calls. He has apologized for his behavior but questioned the accuracy of some of the allegations. Meanwhile, Journalist Mark Halperin is accused of harassing about 12 women while at ABC News. US Senate candidate Roy Moore, a Republican from Alabama, is accused of sexually assaulting two teenagers and pursuing relationships with several others decades ago, when he was in his 30s. He has denied the allegations. Former President George H.W. Bush was accused of patting seven women below the waist. The 93-year-old has issued apologies through a spokesman "to anyone he has offended." A senior figure in the US Democratic party, Minnesota Senator Al Franken is accused of forcibly kissing radio personality Leeann Tweeden and groping her while she slept during a 2006 tour to Afghanistan to entertain US troops. The former comedian who became a senator in 2009 has apologized, saying he felt "disgusted" with himself. Ex-USA gymnastics team doctor Lawrence "Larry" Nassar is accused of abusing over 100 female athletes. He pleaded guilty to multiple counts of criminal sexual conduct and could face 25 years in prison. Three of his victims were under 13 years old. Israeli IOC member Alex Gilady is accused by two women of rape and by two others of inappropriate conduct. He denies the rape accusations. Actor Kevin Spacey has been accused by at least 24 men of sexual misconduct or assault. London police are investigating two sexual assaults and he was fired from "House of Cards." Dustin Hoffman is accused by a woman of harassing her when she was 17. He has apologized for his behavior. Writer-director James Toback is accused by hundreds of women of sexual harassment. He denies the allegations. Author: Jo Harper Here's a look back at events that happened after the breakthrough scandal. October 24, 2017: The scandal reached the fashion industry. Condé Nast, the publisher behind magazines such as Vogue, Vanity Fair and GQ announced it would no longer be hiring photographer Terry Richardson, after a Sunday Times article asked why he was still working for prestigious fashion magazines despite being regularly accused of sexual assault. In January 2018 the influential photographers Mario Testino and Bruce Weber were also suspended from working with different fashion magazines after a New York Times article published testimonies of models accusing them of sexually exploiting them. European Parliament member Terry Reintke holding a placard with the hashtag "MeToo" October 25, 2017: The European Parliament member from Germany and Green Party politician Terry Reintke had already described in September how she had been a victim of a sexual attack in the German city of Duisburg. In the aftermath of the #MeToo debate, the EU Parliament decided to deal with similar occurrences within its walls. The legislature passed a resolution: Cases of harassment and assault were to be investigated, cleared up and sanctioned. October 29, 2017: Actor Anthony Rapp claimed through the online magazine BuzzFeed that House of Cards lead actor Kevin Spacey had made unwanted sexual advances toward him when he was 14. Spacey came out as gay in an apology to Rapp. A growing number of men also accused the star of sexual misconduct, including 20 employees of London's Old Vic theater. Spacey was artistic director at the Old Vic theater in London between 2004 and 2015. Netflix ended House of Cards  without him and Ridley Scott reshot Spacey's scenes in his already completed filmAll the Money in the World, replacing the disgraced actor with Christopher Plummer. November 1, 2017: Author Anna Graham Hunter wrote in Hollywood Reporter column "Dustin Hoffman Sexually Harassed Me When I Was 17," recounting her experience as an intern on the set of the 1985 film Death of a Salesman. In the following weeks six more women revealed their similar cases from the 70s and 80s. That same day, British Defense Minister Michael Fallon stepped down. According to a report in the British newspaper The Guardian, Fallon had inappropriately touched journalist Julia Hartley-Brewer multiple times on the knee during a dinner back in 2002, until she threatened to slap him. November 12, 2017: Hundreds of women, men and children came together in Hollywood to attend a "Me Too Survivors" march. They paraded down Hollywood Boulevard with signs and banners in protest against sexual abuse and rape. Their path also led them over the Walk of Fame, the sidewalk filled with the stars of legendary Hollywood figures, some of whom stood accused. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2xBt8 November 24, 2017: The Swedish Academy, which awards the Nobel Prize in Literature every year, was also rocked by a scandal. The husband of one of the academy's members was accused of sexual assault. His name was later revealed; French photographer Jean-Claude Arnault was also a prominent figure of Sweden's cultural scene. In October 2018, he was  found guilty of rape. December 6, 2017: Time magazine announced its annual Person of the Year. Following Angela Merkel (2015) and Donald Trump (2016), it chose "The Silence Breakers," people who had spoken out as part of the #MeToo movement. The accompanying article included the original founder of the term "MeToo," Tarana Burke, as well as stars such as Taylor Swift and Ashley Judd. The magazine underlined that its yearly selection was about honoring people who, in whatever form, impact social debates. In 2017, the magazine said, these people were the innumerable "Silence Breakers." In 1997, upcomer Ashley Judd was invited to meet star-maker Harvey Weinstein at an LA hotel, whereupon he tried to coerce her into bed. Judd escaped but refused to be silenced. Many in Hollywood then said the producer's sexual misconduct was an "open secret." "There wasn't a place for us to report these experiences," said Judd, the first to call out Weinstein in the New York Times in October. When actor Rose McGowan first told people that Harvey Weinstein had raped her, she says some in Hollywood threatened to end her career. "They threatened [me] with being blacklisted. I was blacklisted after I was raped, because I got raped, because I said something," she said in a January interview first published in the Observer. But that didn't stop her from later speaking out. When Taylor Swift alleged that Denver radio DJ David Mueller reached under her skirt and groped her, he took her to court after it lead to his firing. "I'm not going to let you or your client make me feel in any way that this is my fault," she told his lawyer. Swift also told Time magazine that if Mueller was "brazen enough to assault me... imagine what he might do to a vulnerable, young artist." Blair claims that writer/director James Toback invited her to his room and asked her to remove her clothing while she read a script before asking her for sex. When she refused, he blocked her way and masturbated against her leg. He then threatened to kill her if she dared to talk. "I didn't want to speak up because, it sounds crazy but, even until now, I have been scared for my life," said Blair. "Me Too" was first used in 2006 by gender equality activist Tarana Burke as a rallying cry for young sexual harassment and assault survivors. Actor Alyssa Milano was sent a screenshot of the phrase in October and later tweeted: "If you've been sexually harassed or assaulted write 'me too' as a reply to this tweet." She woke to find that over 30,000 people had used #MeToo and burst into tears. After Bill O'Reilly and Fox News spent millions on lawyers to settle, and silence, sexual harassment claims, Wendy Walsh, a psychologist and Fox contributor spoke out about O'Reilly after initial reluctance for fear of retaliation. "I felt it was my duty," Walsh told Time, "as a mother of daughters, as an act of love for women everywhere and the women who are silenced, to be brave." TV news anchor Megyn Kelly has accused Fox host Bill O'Reilly of sexual harassment. "What if we did complain?" she said to Time, "if we spoke our truth in our strongest voices? What if that worked to change reality right now?" Perhaps that change has already started to come. "I always thought maybe things could change for my daughter," said Kelly. "I never thought things could change for me." An Uber engineer, Fowler felt powerless with "a harasser in the White House" and decided to out sexual harassers at Uber in a blog post. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick was subsequently forced to resign and 20-odd employees were fired. "There's something really empowering about standing up for what's right," said Fowler, who has been described as a whistle-blower — which she calls "a badge of honor." The actor and former American football star is one of a number of men who have said "me too." Crews has taken out a sexual assault lawsuit against talent agent Adam Venit, who he accuses of groping him at a party in Hollywood in February 2016. Also among Time's Silence Breakers is actor Blaise Godbe Lipman, who's accused talent agent Tyler Grasham of sexually assaulting him when he was a teenager. Author: Stuart Braun January 1, 2018: Over 300 women from the US film industry started the foundation "Time's Up" against sexual harassment. Hollywood stars such as Meryl Streep, Nicole Kidman, Julienne Moore, Salma Hayek, Scarlett Johansson, Jennifer Lawrence, Susan Sarandon, Uma Thurman and Cate Blanchett are among its supporters. The fund provides subsidized legal support to people who have experienced sexual harassment. January 3, 2018: The first specific allegations in the German film industry were made. Actresses and former co-workers accused director Dieter Wedel of violent and sexual harassment in the 1990s. Back then, Wedel was in charge of highly successful German TV films and series — and known for his iron-fisted approach on set. Several actresses spoke of harassment, even rape, in hotel rooms. Wedel denied the allegations and announced he would take legal action. January 6, 2018: At the Golden Globes Awards ceremony in Los Angeles, most guests showed up dressed in black out of solidarity with the #MeToo movement and the victims of sexual violence. Oprah Winfrey made a rousing speech. "For too long women have not been heard or believed if they dared to speak their truth to the power of those men. But their time is up," the talk show host said. Firing off a bold speech at the Golden Globe Awards, people immediately started speculating whether renowned talk show host Oprah Winfrey would run for president in 2020. In her acceptance speech for the special Globes award honoring her achievements, 63-year-old Winfrey called for support for the press "currently under siege" and stressed the need for "speaking the truth." In her speech, Winfrey described how she, as a little girl in 1964, watched TV as Sidney Poitier became the first black man to receive a best actor Oscar. The pivotal moment may have inspired her to later become the attentive listener she is renowned for in her "The Oprah Winfrey Show," which was nationally syndicated from 1986 to 2011. She's shown here in 2000 with then Vice President Al Gore. Winfrey started her media career as a journalist. This picture is from 1984, when she was the host of morning talk show "AM Chicago." She would go on to become one of the most successful businesswomen in the US. Oprah Winfrey may now be a multi-billionaire, but that's a far cry from her modest beginnings. Winfrey was born to a poor teenage mother in Mississippi in 1954. Molested as a child and young teen, she herself gave birth to a baby boy at age 14. He died in infancy. Years later, she starred in Steven Spielberg's 1985 film "The Color Purple" (picture), which also deals with poverty and incest. By publicly talking about the abuse she experienced during her youth and other private issues, she created a new genre in US media, described as "Oprahfication." Winfrey's emotional touch is said to have revolutionized the talk show genre. It was a recipe for success, turning her show into the highest-ranking of its kind. Her daily talk show, her publishing, her work as a producer and actress, her own television channel and the brand that is Oprah Winfrey has turned her into a multi-billionaire. She has, however, also shared her riches as a philanthropist. President Barack Obama, whom Winfrey endorsed during his election campaign, awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2013. It is likely her courage and her manner of "leaning in" to people, uniting them rather than dividing them during her rousing Globes speech, that has prompted followers to call for her candidacy in the next presidential race. In her Globes speech, Winfrey voiced her support of those involved in the recent #MeToo movement – women, many of them female celebrities, who have relayed their experiences of sexual harassment, among them from producer Harvey Weinstein. Now that her name is circulating as a potential candidate, Trump supporters are pointing to the chummy relationship between Winfrey and Weinstein over the years. Having attended Tennessee State University, Winfrey now holds honorary doctorate degrees from Duke and Harvard Universities. She's also written several books on food, health and inspiration, among other topics. Released in October 2017, her book "The Wisdom of Sundays" explores spirituality and insight. Will the idea launched Sunday at the Golden Globes make up the next chapter in her life? Author: Louisa Schaefer Nobody, she added, should ever have to say "me too" again. The audience and millions of TV viewers were so enthralled by Winfrey's words that many would like to see her as a candidate for the next US presidential election. January 9, 2018: French film star Catherine Deneuve  and 100 other French celebrity women published an open letter in newspaper Le Monde, harshly criticizing the "denunciation campaign" against men. "Rape is a crime, but insistent or clumsy flirting is not an offense," the women wrote. Among the signatories of the open letter was Oscar-nominated French star Catherine Deneuve. Already known for her controversial stance toward harassment, Deneuve has said she finds the #MeToo and #BalanceTonPorc social media actions "excessive." That's after she expressed her support for director Roman Polanski, who is still wanted in the US for the statutory rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977. Modern art expert and editor-in-chief of the magazine Art Press, Catherine Millet was also among the signatories who wrote, "Rape is a crime, but trying to seduce someone, even persistently or cack-handedly, is not — nor is men being gentlemanly a macho attack." Millet is perhaps best known for her book, "The Sexual Life of Catherine M.," a memoir tracing her 30 years in France's swinger scene. German-born Chanson singer, Ingrid Caven, added her name to the open letter, which claims that the protest's legitimacy has turned into a "witch-hunt." "Instead of helping women, this frenzy (...) actually helps the enemies of sexual liberty — religious extremists and the worst sort of reactionaries. As women, we do not recognize ourselves in this feminism." A radio talk show host who got her start in the porn industry in 1976, just a year after it was legalized, Brigitte Lahaie signed the letter, which speaks of a "purifying wave" that knows no limit. "(T)he human being is not monolithic: a woman can in the same day lead a professional team and enjoy being the sexual object of a man without being a 'slut' nor a vile accomplice of the patriarchy." France's version of #MeToo is #BalanceTonPorc, or "call out your pig." Created by NY-based French journalist Sandra Muller, it essentially invites people to name names — and that involves legal risks. Muller herself was asked by lawyers to delete a tweet in which she named a French executive who had said offensive remarks. Prominent feminists quickly responded to the letter signed by Deneuve, saying that it blurred the line between seduction and harassment and in doing so, harmed the "millions of women who suffer from this abuse." Former presidential candidate Ségolène Royal took to Twitter to express her dismay, saying, "It's too bad that our great Catherine Deneuve has signed on to this disconcerting text." Among the women who have accused Harvey Weinstein of inappropriate behavior is French actress Emma De Caunes. De Caunes said she had met Weinstein for lunch at a Paris Hotel in 2010. She was invited to his hotel room to discuss a project but after he walked out of his bathroom naked with an erection, Caunes fled. "It was like a hunter with a wild animal," she said. "The fear turns him on." In October, actress Florence Darel also came out as having been sexually harassed by Harvey Weinstein, telling People magazine that Weinstein pursued her in the mid '90s and then propositioned her in a hotel room while his then-wife, Eve Chilton, was in the room next door. Darcel, who starred in "The Stolen Children" and "Uranus" has also accused other French producers, including Jacques Dorfmann. In October, shortly after the accusations against Harvey Weinstein went public, French actress Isabelle Adjani published an op-ed in the weekly JDD newspaper saying, "(T)his is not a game … When an actress dresses up in a seductive way to get a role, it's not to get raped!" She went on to say that in France, "things are more sneaky" than in the US — but "seduction" cannot be an excuse for assault. Author: Courtney Tenz April 26, 2018: Comedy star Bill Cosby was found guilty in a sexual assault trial based on a case from 2004. Many other women came out with similar accusations. On September 25 he was sentenced to three to 10 years in prison. August 20, 2018: The New York Times reported that actor Asia Argento, one of the prominent Harvey Weinstein accusers, had allegedly assaulted former co-star Jimmy Bennett while he was still a minor. September 27, 2018: A hearing was held to question US Supreme Court candidate Brett Kavanaugh and Christine Blasey Ford, who had accused him of sexually assaulting her while they were in high school. A whirlwind FBI investigation was conducted after the testimony. The Senate is voting on Kavanaugh's nomination on October 5. October 5, 2018: The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad  for their efforts to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and armed conflict.