The Christian Social Union (CSU) looked set to win the most votes in Sunday's regional election in Bavaria, one of Germany's conservative heartlands. But for only the third time in post war history, Bavaria's dominant political force will have to share power. According to exit polls, the CSU lost its absolutely majority in the southern German state, taking just 35.5 percent of the vote. The Greens earned the second largest percentage of the vote with 18.5. They were followed by the right-leaning Free Voters with 11.5 percent and the far-right populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party with 11percent. The Social Democratic Party (SPD) continued to decline, getting only ten percent while the center-right Free Democratic Party is projected to get around five percent of the vote. It is thus unclear with they will clear the five-percent hurdle needed for parliamentary representation. According to initial estimates, the CSU will between 74 and 79 of the 192 to 200 total seats in regional parliament. Those results leave the CSU needing a coalition partner if they are to continue to govern Germany's largest territorial state. Bavarian state premier Markus Söder could opt to form a two-party partnership with the left-leaning Greens, although both sides of that agreement have expressed reservations about such an arrangements. A more conservative option would be a deal with the Free Voters and perhaps the FDP. The CSU has ruled out any partnerships with the AfD. Official results will be published later on Sunday or Monday. The CSU is expected to sounding out potential partners immediately, while the party licks its wounds after losing more than twelve percent of its vote from the last Bavarian election in 2013. And analysis will begin about what Sunday's result means for the CSU's much larger conservative sister party, the CDU, and its chairwoman, Chancellor Angela Merkel. Söder's Bavarian conservatives now face the unusual situation of needing help to govern Merkel's mixed blessing On the surface Sunday's result might seem like a disaster for Germany's embattled leader, but the effect for Merkel may actually be positive in the short term. The CSU – partly party chairman Horst Seehofer, who is also Germany's Interior Minister – has been highly critical of Merkel's welcoming policies toward asylum seekers and largely excluded her from election campaigning. Thus, the CSU's poor showing can be read as a voter rejection of that position. And the CSU may well avoid the sort of provocations and disruptions that marred the first six months of the current Merkel administration. Pressure may grow on Seehofer to step down from one or both of his posts. On the other hand, the 69-year-old shows no signs of quitting, and his official calendar as interior minister is full of appointments for the coming week. Moreover, dramatic losses in the most reliably conservative part of Germany don't bode well for Merkel in the medium to long term. Many on the right worry that Merkel's own CDU could suffer similar declines in regional elections in the state of Hesse on October 28. The latest polls suggest that the CDU could struggle to break 30 percent in that vote. 33-year-old Bavarian Green leader Katharina Schulze personifies the party's image as fresh and new A sea change on the left One trend evident from Sunday's results is that the smaller parties continue to eat away at the support for Merkel's conservatives and their national coalition partners, the Social Democrats. The Greens more than doubled their share of the votes on Sunday compared to the 2013 Bavarian election. With the environmentalists also leading the government coalition in neighboring Baden-Württemberg, they can now legitimately claim to be the preeminent political force on the left in Southern Germany. The Greens are also polling up to 18 percent in Hesse, which would be a best-ever result in that western German state. That, say analysts close to the party, is because the Greens have proven themselves as part of a number of regional governments and have a clearly identifiable message. "Voters know what Greens stand for," says political scientist Arne Jungjohann. "They view the party as reliable and stable." The Greens' mercurial rise has been accompanied by the precipitous decline of the SPD, traditionally Germany and Bavaria's second strongest party. Social Democrats now have good cause for worry that they may lose their national predominance on the left to the environmentalists as well. 'Our language is German' was one AfD message, but it didn't attract as many voters as hoped Far-right party in Bavarian parliament For the AfD, Sunday's results were mixed. On the one hand, the right-wing populists are now represented in all but one of Germany's 16 regional parliaments and have every reason to expect that they will earn seats in the final remaining one, Hesse, later this month. On the other hand, the AfD might have hoped for a greater share of the vote in one of the most conservative parts of Germany, where voters have traditionally been skeptical about what are perceived as foreign influences. Part of the AfD's difficulties may have been the lack of a charismatic lead candidate and the reticence of Catholic voters in the face of some of the populists' more hardline positions. The Free Voters, who beat out the AfD for third place, likely also siphoned off some conservative voters disgruntled with the CSU. Whatever the reasons, the Bayern vote seems to have slowed if not halted the AfD's momentum. And the success of the Greens shows that there are alternatives to the traditional political mainstream on both the left and right in Germany. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36Oq8