Stuttgart have parted ways with coach Tayfun Korkat after a 3-1 defeat by Hanover left them bottom of the Bundesliga. With only a solitary victory against Werder Bremen to their names, Korkut, who signed a one-year contract extension with the club in June, had been under growing pressure to guide the club out of the danger zone. But the club finally lost patience as Stuttgart, who finished seventh last season, lost at fellow strugglers Hanover. Korkut and his two assistant coaches, Ilija Aracic and Steven Cherundolo, have been "released from their duties with immediate effect," a club statement said on Sunday. Korkut, 44, had been in charge since January and led the club out of relegation danger last season, but the club's sports director Michael Reschke said the lack of progress and poor results this season "have made us take this step." President Wolfgang Dietrich said: "This decision was very difficult for us. After the pleasing progress of the past season, we were confident that we could continue the positive development with Tayfun Korkut as head coach in the new season. "Unfortunately, that was not successful. Above all, our responsibility lies with VfB Stuttgart and its sporting future." Former Germany international Andreas Hinkel will lead training as Stuttgart prepare to host Bundesliga leaders Borussia Dortmund in their first game after the international break. It took Weston McKennie 33 games to open his Schalke account, now he can't stop hitting the net. The American youngster opened the scoring in this one after scoring the winner against Lokomotiv Moscow in midweek. Guido Burgstaller made it safe for Schalke, who have now won three in a row without conceding. But McKennie wasn't the only American having fun on Saturday. Bobby Wood (left) was handed his first start since moving to Hannover and rewarded his coach Andre Breitenreiter with quickfire headed double before halftime. Mario Gomez pulled one back for Stuttgart after the break but Ihlas Bebou made it safe late on as the hosts held on for their first league win of the season. Paco Alcacer's stunning injury time freekick completed his hat-trick and won his team a pulsating game at Signal Iduna Park. Dortmund twice trailed their visitors before Alcacer and Mario Götze (in his first league appearance of the season) put them ahead for the first time. When Roman Bürki spilt Michael Gregoritsch's header in to the net on 87 minutes, it looked all over. Not quite. If before it was a blip, it's now most certainly a crisis by Bayern Munich's lofty standards. An excellent 9th minute strike from French forward Alassane Plea gave the visitors the lead before Thiago's error allowed Lars Stindl to score on his return from a severe ankle injury. The comeback many expected never came and Patrick Herrmann completed the rout late on. A game low on quality, chances and - from the looks of it - spectators saw these sides share the points. Even Ondrej Duda, the Bundesliga's top scorer before this weekend couldn't summon up anything to steal the points. The result keeps Hertha in the Champions League spots and Mainz safely in midtable. Davy Klaassen showed how quickly he is settling in at his new club by delivering a game-winning performance in a gritty match. The Dutchman's goal on the volley in the box 10 minutes before the break gave Werder confidence in a game where Wolfsburg had passages of pressure. Forty-year-old Claudio Pizarro came off the bench to set up fellow sub Johannes Eggestein for the second late on. After a perfect start, suddenly Bayern Munich look shaky. The question will be whether Niko Kovac can steady the ship, especially after the surprise defeat against Hertha Berlin last time out in the league. Gladbach have a great record against Bayern and will be keen to make sure they are not the opponent that Bayern start their comeback against. Author: Jonathan Harding