As announced by The Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau in Barcelona, Montserrat Caballé passed away early Saturday morning. The famous operatic opera star will be laid to rest on Monday. When Montserrat Caballé was born on April 12, 1933, her parents named her after a nearby mountain range close to Barcelona. Yet no one in the family might have dreamed that the newborn would go on to conquer the lofty summits of coloratura singing, or would be revered as the "queen of bel canto." From Bremen out into the world On stage in 1968 After studying voice at a conservatory in her native Barcelona, Montserrat Caballé made her debut in 1956 at the Theater Basel, where she played the consumptive Mimi in Puccini's "La Bohème." Three years later, the young soprano joined the ensemble of the Theater Bremen, where she consistently developed her repertoire and studied diverse soprano parts. As audiences in the rather restrained northern German city of Bremen enthusiastically applauded the singer, foreign houses also became aware of Caballé. When in New York in 1965, the soprano stepped in for singer Marilyn Horne, who had fallen ill, and performed Donizetti's "Lucrezia Borgia" without a rehearsal. "This is the bel canto specialist we've been waiting for," cheered enthusiastic critics after Caballé's impressive performance.  Rossini, Bellini, Donizetti On stage with Jose Carreras at a benefit concert in 1995 This sudden New York success might have surprised the singer but it was a pivotal step on her international career path. In an interview about the Italian vocal style decades later, she said of her New York performance: "Bel canto always sounded too much like the cry of a rooster. Mozart was better. The conductor simply told me to sing it as though it were Mozart." Although Caballé often interpreted works by Mozart or Richard Strauss, audiences especially wanted to hear her perform virtuoso coloratura parts in operas by Gioacchino Rossini, Vincenzo Bellini and Gaetano Donizetti. Indeed, rising demand for the soprano saw her soon make appearances at the Met in New York, as well as major international opera houses in Munich, Hamburg, Berlin, Vienna, London, Paris, Milan or Buenos Aires.  A friend of Callas Just before singing the lead role of Imogen in Bellini's 'Il Pirata' in London After her meteoric ascent to the bel canto summit, Caballé became close with a colleague who was both admired and feared: Maria Callas. The two divas got along quite well, with the younger asking Callas for advice on difficult parts. The latter once described Caballé's voice as a "light breeze on the skin." Caballé likewise had good relationship with soprano Renata Tebaldi, who was Callas' fiercest competitor. The Spanish soprano was likely pleased after the international press labeled her the heir of the two celebrated divas in the 1970s and 80s. But amid the hype, bel canto remained the most important focus of Caballé's wide-ranging stage repertoire. Unafraid of rubbing elbows Queen's lead singer, Freddie Mercury, was a longtime fan The soprano's fans didn't just stem from the classical music scene. One of the opera star's most famous admirers was Freddie Mercury, lead singer in British rock group Queen. In 1987, he and Caballé collaborated on the album "Barcelona," with the eponymous title song reaching the top of the European pop charts. The album's reissue for the 1992 Olympic Games was again a major success. On her 1997 album "Friends for Life," Caballé collaborated with pop greats like Bruce Dickinson from band Iron Maiden (covering the Queen song "Bohemian Rapshody"), in addition to Johnny Hallyday, Jonny Logan, Vangelis and Helmut Lotti. In addition to her classical repertoire, the singer was also interested in the traditional music of her Catalan homeland. She performed numerous concerts with her daughter, the soprano Montserrat Martí. A UNESCO ambassador, Caballé received countless honors such as the Federal Cross of Merit awarded by Germany. In 2007, she received the ECHO Klassik Prize for her life's work. The singer had said she "wants to die on stage" 'The best voice in the world' Freddie Mercury was just one of many who raved about Caballé's voice, saying it was "the best in the world." Critics praised the almost inexhaustible versatility of her repertoire, the unusually dramatic nature of her performances, and her mastery of vocal technique. She was revered not only as the "queen of bel canto," but one of the greatest singers of her generation. Bob Dylan's youngest son Jakob is certainly nowhere near as famous as his father but is clearly a successful musician, winning two Grammys as singer in the rock band "The Wallflowers." Following in his father's footsteps, he recorded two folk albums. Be it soft or loud, Jakob is musically versatile and has certainly inherited a great deal of his father's talent. The American soul singer, born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar, has a famous father: Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar. Making traditional music from India famous worldwide, he influenced Beatles' guitarist George Harrison and others. "Come Away With Me," her recording debut, gave Norah instant world fame and yielded seven Grammy awards. As a singer and songwriter, his father Tim once performed with the greatest of his time, including Jefferson Airplane and Jimi Hendrix. Jeff's first and only studio album, "Grace," was a thorough success. His rendition of Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah" is considered one of the most famous cover versions ever. Three years after its release, Buckley drowned in a river, age 30. Nancy's singing career peaked in the 1960s. "These Boots Are Made for Walkin'" stormed the charts worldwide. The duets "Summer Wine" with Lee Hazelwood and "Something Stupid" with her father were also huge successes. For his film "Kill Bill," Quentin Tarantino unearthed Nancy Sinatra's song "Bang Bang." Her fame has meanwhile faded, but "Old Blue Eyes" continues to be venerated, also by Bob Dylan. As front man for The Police and as a solo artist, her father Gordon Sumner, alias Sting, is one of the most famous musicians of all time. Eliot has enjoyed musical success as well. Using the name "I Blame Coco," she landed a hit in 2011: "Self Machine." The 25-year-old appears on her current album "Information" under her real name. He's to be thanked for the Beatles hit "Hey Jude." Paul McCartney wrote it for Julian, who was sad over his parents's separation. Like his father John, Julian is a musician of multiple gifts and embarked on a successful career after his father was murdered. The physical and musical resemblance of father and son cannot be overlooked - or overheard. On the right: half-brother Sean. Along with several of his (probably 10) siblings and half-siblings - including Damien, Sharon, Stephen and other Marleys - the oldest son of the iconic reggae artist Bob Marley carries on the tradition and is considered one of today's foremost reggae artists. Along with musical gifts, Ziggy has a passion for football in common with his late father. Like her father Johnny, Rosanne is a country music icon. Since the 1980's, the Man in Black's eldest daugther has landed 11 No. 1 singles in the country charts. She often shared the stage with her father. Having passed age 60, Rosanne hasn't tired of performing. Last year, her newest album won three Grammys. The famous country singer Billy Ray Cyrus had a first-hand view of his daughter's meteoric rise to fame, depicting her father in "Hannah Montana," the TV series that was her breakthrough. Initiating her singing career as a teenager, she's sold in the millions since. Drug abuse and nude poses split the audience but have not impaired her success. Of course it's not just the children of rock and pop musicians who inherit the music gene. Martí was blessed with the exceptional voice of her mother, the Spanish soprano Montserrat Caballé, regarded as one of the 20th century's top operatic singers. Mother and daughter have made several joint appearances. Author: Felix Schlagwein/rf Author: Felix Schlagwein/rf