Saudi prosecutors said the alleged killers of Jamal Khashoggi acted intentionally, in comments published by Saudi news agency SPA. The finding runs completely counter to earlier assertions that Khashoggi's death at Riyadh's Turkish consulate was accidental. Saudi officials initially claimed that Khashoggi had left the embassy safely. Turkish forensic officials at the Saudi consul's residence in Istanbul "Information has come from the Turkish side indicating that the suspects in the Khashoggi case embarked on their act with a premeditated intention," Saudi Attorney General Saud al-Mojeb said. "The public prosecution continues its investigations with the accused in light of what it has received and the results of its inquiry," he added. Merkel calls for investigation Angela Merkel's spokesman said on Thursday that the Chancellor had spoken with Saudi King Salman and condemned the killing "in the sharpest possible manner." She called for a quick, transparent and credible investigation of Khashoggi's death and for all those responsible to be held accountable. On Sunday, Merkel said Germany would stop exporting weapons to Saudi Arabia, at least for the time being. Khashoggi's eldest son was reported to have flown out of Saudi Arabia on Wednesday, according to Reuters. Salah Khashoggi was seen at the royal palace on Tuesday, shaking hands with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. According to Human Rights Watch, Salah Khashoggi is on his way to the United States after a travel ban on him was lifted. October 2: Prominent journalist Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he had gone to obtain an official document for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. He never emerged from the consulate, prompting Cengiz, who waited outside, to raise the alarm. October 3: Turkish and Saudi officials came up with conflicting reports on Khashoggi's whereabouts. Riyadh said the journalist had left the mission shortly after his work was done. But Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said the journalist was still in the consulate. October 6: Turkish officials said they believed the journalist was likely killed inside the Saudi consulate. The Washington Post, for which Khashoggi wrote, cited unnamed sources to report that Turkish investigators believe a 15-member team "came from Saudi Arabia" to kill the man. October 8: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on Saudi Arabia to prove that Khashoggi left its consulate in Istanbul. Turkey also sought permission to search the mission premises. US President Donald Trump voiced concern on the journalist's disappearance. October 9: Saudi Arabia agreed to let Turkish officials search its consulate. Security camera footage released by local media showed a van entering the consulate on October 2, before going to the nearby consul's residence, further fanning conspiracy theories. October 12: British billionaire Richard Branson halted talks over a $1 billion Saudi investment in his Virgin group's space ventures, citing Khashoggi's case. He also pulled out of an investment conference in Riyadh dubbed the "Davos in the Desert." His move was followed by Uber's Dara Khosrowshahi, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon and a host of other business leaders. October 15: Turkish investigators searched the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The search lasted more than eight hours and investigators removed samples from the building, including soil from the consulate garden and a metal door, one official said. October 19: Saudi Arabia said preliminary investigations showed that Khashoggi died after an "altercation" and "fistfight" at the consulate. Turkey's ruling party has responded, saying Ankara will "never allow a cover-up" of the killing of the Saudi journalist. German Chancellor slammed Riyadh's explanation as "insufficient." October 21: Saudi Arabia admitted the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a "rogue operation," calling it a "huge and grave mistake," but insisted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had not been aware of the murder. Riyadh said it had no idea where Khashoggi's body was. October 21: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany would put arms exports to Saudi Arabia on hold for the time being, given the unexplained circumstances of Khashoggi's death. Germany is the fourth largest exporter of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the United States, Britain and France. Author: Ashutosh Pandey Saudi Arabian authorities have been trying to distance Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman from Khashoggi's killing. The prince on Thursday chaired the first meeting of a committee to overhaul the general intelligence agency, SPA reported. Salman called Khashoggi's killing "heinous" and "painful to all Saudis" in his first public remarks on the incident on Wednesday. At the weekend 18 Saudis were arrested, and four senior intelligence officials and a royal adviser were fired. On Thursday the Reuters news agency and The Washington Post reported Turkey had shared audio recordings of the killing with CIA Director Gina Haspel, marking the first time Turkish investigators officially shared information with the US. Germany's economic affairs minister, Peter Altmaier, who is on a two-day visit to Turkey to boost trade ties, praised Turkish efforts to shed light on the killing and said "many question marks" remain. EU parliament urges arms embargo The European Parliament on Thursday passed a resolution urging an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia in response to Khashoggi's killing. The assembly believed it was "very unlikely" the killing was committed without Salman's knowledge as he was in "complete control" of Saudi Arabia's security services. The resolution called for "an impartial, international investigation into his death to find out what actually happened inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on 2 October, and for those responsible to be brought to justice." Ska Keller, a German member of the European Green Party, said: "EU countries must not continue to turn a blind eye to the serious human rights violations committed by the Saudi government." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/378yC aw,dv/jm (dpa, AP, Reuters, AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.