Despite the dire warnings about the meat industry's catastrophic impact on the climate, some consumers feel it's just too difficult to cut out their long-held carnivorous habits — that is, if they even want to. When meat is so cheap in many countries, there's even less incentive to try. But the low prices found on supermarket shelves mask meat's hidden costs. Research has revealed that meat is being sold to consumers at just a fraction of what it would cost if it accurately reflected the true value of the environmental damage it inflicts. What if governments imposed a tax on meat to encourage people to change their diets? Many nations put a "sin tax" on products deemed harmful to society, such as alcohol and tobacco, so should the price tag on meat not also reflect its true environmental cost? Read more: A Dutch butcher shop minus the meat Not their fault! Humans' huge appetite for meat and milk makes cows terrible for the climate Switching to a 'flexitarian' diet The meat and dairy industry is on track to becoming the biggest contributor to climate change, outpacing even the fossil fuel industry. According to an analysis by the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy and the non-profit GRAIN, the world's livestock sector could be responsible for 80 percent of the allowable greenhouse gas budget by 2050. The impact of meat was further underlined in a recent major study which found that huge reductions in meat consumption are crucial to avoid devastating climate change. Another comprehensive study published in the journal Nature found Western countries should cut beef consumption by 90 percent. The paper's researchers have called for a worldwide switch to a "flexitarian" diet to keep climate change under the limit of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), meaning eating mainly plant-based foods and meat on rare occasions. How to achieve this? One suggestion the study authors make to reduce meat consumption is to tax it. The craving for meat can be both physical and psychological Eating meat to rebel Considering the western world's meat consumption, that won't be easy. In Germany for example, the average person eats 60 kilograms (132 pounds) of meat annually. Katrin Wenz, agricultural consultant at Friends of the Earth Germany (BUND), told DW that while levels of meat consumption are falling overall, she added there's also a reverse trend. "We have a population group that isn't even that small — a few percent — where it's a particular trend to eat a lot of meat," she said. This group consists largely of men who do a lot of physical activity, and believe they need large amounts of animal protein. "There's a growing consensus that animal farming should be reformed — and perhaps they think, 'I'll simply do what I want.'" She added that in the whole of the EU, "meat is very cheap, and that has to do with the fact that we import very cheap animal feed from South America." Read more: Beef (and Burger King) still eating away at forests Add to this how farmers' unions for years had advised farmers to produce more, which led to cheaper prices, especially for pork. This has resulted in decades of systematic price-dumping. "We don't produce a high-quality product, but a cheap product for the global market." Meat's true cost Supermarket prices for meat are misleading, a study from researchers at the University of Augsburg revealed — and hide the huge secondary costs arising from the environmental impact of meat production. Upon quantifying and monetizing the environmental impact of meat production in Germany, researchers found that conventionally farmed meat would cost three times the price the consumer actually pays. That's an additional cost of 196 percent (see graphic above). When the meat is organically farmed, those hidden costs amount to 82 percent more than the price advertised on the shelves. Such additional costs were calculated by quantifying three factors in animal farming: pollution resulting from nitrogen fertilizer use, greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage. These environmental costs aren't obvious. For instance, they include the money water suppliers have to invest in filtration systems to remove nitrates from drinking water as a result of farming. This cost is borne by consumers — just not in the price of meat, rather in their utility bills. "The problem is that these environmental costs currently don't have a market price," Tobias Gaugler, one of the study's authors, told DW. From a purely economic perspective, this amounts to a "market distortion," he added. "Environmental costs, and pollution and the corresponding damage to human health, have a cost of zero," said Gaugler. These prices "don't reflect the reality." Read more: Your hamburger, the environmental killer Supermarket prices for meat fail to include the environmental and health costs To tax meat like alcohol and cigarettes? So could a "meat tax" be the solution to help reflect the true cost of meat, while at the same time encouraging people to cut their consumption? The investor network Farm Animal Investment Risk and Return (Fairr) is among groups calling for the introduction of a sin tax on meat. But not everyone is convinced that sin taxes are the way to go, including Gaugler. "This step wouldn't be politically feasible," he told DW. Although, such a tax is justifiable, the political will to do it is lacking. "Because people think, 'wait, I would have to pay even more for something,' and society wouldn't accept it." Gaugler instead calls for the bill to be footed far earlier in the production chain, such as with the fertilizer producers, rather than landing directly on the consumer. "Our hope is to change the whole market structure, so that mass animal production [sector] would become more expensive — not because politicians say so, but because the market structure makes that happen," he told DW. Wenz agrees that a meat tax isn't the best way to go. In Germany, meat and milk products enjoy a reduced sales tax rate, and many vegetarian and vegan organizations are calling for that to be abolished, she pointed out. Wenz believes people should trade their consumption of conventional meat for more environmentally friendly, organic meat. A meat tax would result in a distorted, higher tax on better-quality meat, she argued. "You could tax, but not as an instrument to use on meat from more environmentally friendly farming," she concluded. Alternative ways to cut meat consumption Julia Klöckner, the German minister for food and agriculture, recently told newspaper taz that the German government has no plans to raise sales tax on meat products from the current reduced 7 percent to the regular 19 percent, saying: "Meat shouldn't just be for better earners." The German Ministry for Food and Agriculture told DW it was already carrying out a number of measures to help protect the climate change, including trying to minimize food waste. To save the climate, the average global citizen should massively reduce their meat intake, numerous studies say When asked about introducing a tax on their products, meat companies either refused to comment or — unsurprisingly — didn't welcome the prospect. Westfleisch, one of Germany's largest meat producers, told DW it sees "such an artificial price rise extremely critically." "It benefits neither the consumer, nor the environment, nor animal welfare," a spokesperson told DW. "Experience from abroad shows that despite the introduction of penalty taxes, consumption of affected products hasn't changed considerably." Westfleisch believes disseminating information and education for the generations to come would constitute a "more promising way to a sustainable change in meat consumption, nutritional awareness and possibly positive consequences for the climate." For Wenz, efforts to reduce meat consumption should instead focus on consumer information to help informed decision-making; offering more vegetarian options at cheaper prices in canteens; and clearer labeling for meat products. With everything from meat contamination scandals to concerns about agriculture's climate change impact in the news these days, more and more people are turning to a vegan diet. But, there are other ways to eat in an environmentally-friendly way too. Free-range meat products are now commonplace. Rarely, though, are cows raised in such a paradise as this alpine meadow. In the 1970s and 80s, eating vegetarian, and especially vegan - abstaining from animal products completely, like milk and eggs - was not part of the mainstream. Nowadays, things are changing. Jonathan Safran Foer's 2009 book "Eating Animals" sparked thought about the meat people eat. More vegan restaurants are sprouting up all over the place; here are some dishes from 'Pêle-Mêle' in Berlin. Eating vegan can reduce carbon footprints and water usage worldwide. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that the meat industry generates nearly one-fifth of human-made greenhouse gas emissions contributing to climate change. Scientists also say that 13000 to 15000 liters of water are needed to produce just one kilogram of beef. With the recent scandal surrounding Dutch horsemeat being sold as beef, more Europeans are now simply choosing to eat meat less. But, for those that can't do without, the "Meine kleine Farm" (My little farm) concept tries to achieve transparency with consumers. It aims to give each animal it sells as meat a proper identity. The Potsdam-based farm has a website showing the living conditions of the animals and giving customers a chance to vote online about which animal they want slaughtered next. Since they mainly sell to customers in the nearby region, the 'Meine kleine Farm' project also helps to keep transportation routes - and thus greenhouse gases - to a minimum. Eating locally and in season also helps reduce greenhouse gases because it cuts out long transportation routes. Canadians Alisa Smith and J.B. MacKinnon argued for local cuisine in their book, "100-mile diet: A year of local eating." The couple spent one year eating foods from within one hundred miles of their home. Self-preserved foods got them through the winter. The modern industrial agriculture practice of cultivating monocultures, such as corn and soy, can make the crops more susceptible to pests and diseases. This, in turn, promotes the widespread use of pesticides. Small-scale farmers, on the other hand, often promote crop diversity which makes plants naturally more robust, even in periods of drought. Cultivating one's own crops is possible even in big cities, as shown by the "Princess Garden" project right in the middle of Germany's capital, Berlin. Crops are grown and consumed locally, with food dishes offered as business lunches at an on-site café. The urban farmers here say gardening raises awareness about the environment and, since the garden is shared, they make friends along the way too. With Germans throwing away an estimated 20 million tons of food a year, food-sharing has become one of the latest environmentally-friendly trends. Restaurants or grocery stores donate still-edible food that they can no longer use to charity organizations. Foodsharing.de is an internet portal where people can swap food they won't be able to eat. Many dietary experts argue that a vegetarian or vegan diet can be good for your health too. Various studies show that a decrease in daily meat consumption may reduce the risk of cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity. Author: Louisa Schaefer