The Oktoberfest is normally a time of year synonymous with bratwurst, beer and Bayern victories. This year, the German record titleholders, sitting in sixth in the Bundesliga, made their annual trip to Wiesn not tipsy on success, but as salty as the festival's famous giant Brez'n. Read more: What's wrong with Bayern Munich? The last time the German record titleholders went winless in four matches before the Bundesliga title had already been wrapped up was back in 2009 under Louis van Gaal. However, the atypical streak is no reason to break character and, after dismissing Carlo Ancelotti at this stage of last season, the last thing Bayern want is to set a precedent for impulsive sackings. Rehhagel's record in sight? With his reputation inflated after guiding Eintracht Frankfurt to a German Cup win over Bayern back in May, Kovac was heralded as a long-term solution capable of picking up where the venerable Jupp Heynckes left off. The question now is: did Heynckes just paper over the cracks? Bayern won't be able to turn to Jupp Heynckes again this season after the 73-year-old ruled out a return. Following the 3-0 humbling on home soil against Gladbach , Kovac was again forced to field the inevitable questions regarding his future at the club. "I know how football works, and the mechanics of the Bundesliga and Bayern,” said the Berlin-born Croat. "And I know that you get less time at Bayern than elsewhere.” While Bayern's recent stagnation is concerning, a pre-Christmas dismissal would be nothing short of unprecedented. Otto Rehhagel owns the shortest tenure as Bayern head coach, but even he lasted 301 days during the 1995/96 season in which Dortmund ultimately pipped Die Münchner to the title. Big name backing for Kovac With speculation rife as to whether the Kovac will suffer a similar fate to Ancelotti, it's worth noting that the Italian had a better record at this stage of last season before he got the boot. The key difference is that Bayern's bosses have broken their silence in support of the new man in charge, with president Uli Hoeness telling Süddeutsche Zeitung that he would stand behind the 46-year-old "like a rock, no matter what happens in the next few weeks”. Since their historic treble in 2013, Bayern have, by their standards, had a tough time with head coaches. Pep Guardiola dominated the Bundesliga, but failed to deliver the UEFA Champions League, a fate that also befell Ancelotti before Heynckes was drafted in to ‘save the day'. Hoeness' comments are significant, because while Kovac definitely needs more time, it seems like the board are willing to shoulder some of the blame having not set him up for success like his predecessors. James Rodriguez has publicly criticised Niko Kovac's approach training and rotation: "We're not at Frankfurt here" "I feel for Kovac,” former Bayern and Germany midfielder Dietmar Hamann told Sky. "The team is too old, but we knew that before the season started. Ajax made Bayern look like a team of geriatrics. He's being taken apart with his back against the wall and being put under fire for something that he can't help at all.” Read more: Bundesliga Bulletin - Dortmund flying, Bayern tumbling The next step… Factors such as a lack of summer spending, an aging squad - many of whom featured at the World Cup - and the litany of injuries suffered at the start of the season are factors outside of Kovac's control. The Croatian, however, is responsible for cutting out the complacency and arrogance that has crept into Bayern's performances, which have shades of Germany in Russia about them. "The problem was we have the ball, but we have it in harmless areas with too many players occupying ineffective positions”, admitted Mats Hummels after the Gladbach defeat. "We didn't have enough players in the areas to hurt our opposition. In theory, Niko Kovac wants to implement a slightly different approach, but we fall back into old patterns, especially when we're behind. It hinders our game.” The uninspired nature of their performances this season prove that Bayern weren't 20 points better than the rest of the Bundesliga last season, but that the Bundesliga was 20 points worse than them. Now it's up to Niko Kovac to get the German record titleholders back to matching the standards they set. He rose to the challenge at Frankfurt and deserves the chance to steady the ship as his dismissal would only plunge Bayern further into crisis. It took Weston McKennie 33 games to open his Schalke account, now he can't stop hitting the net. The American youngster opened the scoring in this one after scoring the winner against Lokomotiv Moscow in midweek. Guido Burgstaller made it safe for Schalke, who have now won three in a row without conceding. But McKennie wasn't the only American having fun on Saturday. Bobby Wood (left) was handed his first start since moving to Hannover and rewarded his coach Andre Breitenreiter with quickfire headed double before halftime. Mario Gomez pulled one back for Stuttgart after the break but Ihlas Bebou made it safe late on as the hosts held on for their first league win of the season. Paco Alcacer's stunning injury time freekick completed his hat-trick and won his team a pulsating game at Signal Iduna Park. Dortmund twice trailed their visitors before Alcacer and Mario Götze (in his first league appearance of the season) put them ahead for the first time. When Roman Bürki spilt Michael Gregoritsch's header in to the net on 87 minutes, it looked all over. Not quite. If before it was a blip, it's now most certainly a crisis by Bayern Munich's lofty standards. An excellent 9th minute strike from French forward Alassane Plea gave the visitors the lead before Thiago's error allowed Lars Stindl to score on his return from a severe ankle injury. The comeback many expected never came and Patrick Herrmann completed the rout late on. A game low on quality, chances and - from the looks of it - spectators saw these sides share the points. Even Ondrej Duda, the Bundesliga's top scorer before this weekend couldn't summon up anything to steal the points. The result keeps Hertha in the Champions League spots and Mainz safely in midtable. Davy Klaassen showed how quickly he is settling in at his new club by delivering a game-winning performance in a gritty match. The Dutchman's goal on the volley in the box 10 minutes before the break gave Werder confidence in a game where Wolfsburg had passages of pressure. Forty-year-old Claudio Pizarro came off the bench to set up fellow sub Johannes Eggestein for the second late on. There are still big questions hovering over Heiko Herrlich and Bayer Leverkusen after a disappointing draw away at Freiburg. Lucas Alario had a couple of good chances for the visitors while Luca Waldschmidt struck the post late on for the hosts, whose coach Christian Streich ended the day the happier of the two bosses. After 2-1 home defeats to RB Leipzig and Manchester City, Hoffenheim lost again by the same score at home to Eintracht Frankfurt. Frankfurt took a two-goal lead in Sinsheim thanks to a long-range lob from Ante Rebic and a low drive from Luka Jovic. Rebic later saw red while Hoffenheim pulled a goal back through Reiss Nelson, but Eintracht hung on for a third straight win in all competitions. "We will learn from this," promised Nuremberg coach Michael Köllner after his side crashed to a 7-0 defeat away at Borussia Dortmund two weeks ago - but few lessons appear to have been learned as "The Club" shipped six in the Red Bull Arena. Marcel Sabitzer and Timo Werner both scored twice for RB, the latter also seeing a penalty saved after Nuremberg were reduced to ten men in the second half. Author: Jonathan Harding