Hundreds of members of Germany's far-right Reichsbürger scene still hold weapon permits and possess firearms, despite police efforts to crack down on the radical movement.  A joint investigation published on Tuesday by German broadcaster NDR and the Süddeutsche Zeitung found that as many as 600 members still own rifles and pistols, while only around half of all known members have had their permits revoked. The findings come almost two years after all of Germany's regional interior ministers across the 16 states agreed to disarm the radical movement. The decision was made after a Reichsbürger member shot dead a policeman and injured three others in Bavaria in October 2016. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3220r Who are the Reichsbürger? The Reichsbürger movement (roughly translated as "Citizens of the Reich") subscribes to the idea that the 1937 borders of the German Empire still exist and that the modern-day Federal Republic is effectively a puppet state still occupied by the Allied powers. Members refuse to recognize the German Basic Law, the government, police authorities and the courts, while some are also anti-Semitic. According to Germany's domestic intelligence agency, as many as 18,000 people are believed to be part of the movement, several of whom have been classed as violent right-wing extremists with an affinity for weapons. The NDR/Süddeutsche report broke down how heavily armed members in some German states were. For example, in the state of Brandenburg, just 37 Reichsbürger members own some 150 firearms, while in Thuringia 18 members owned 79 rifles. Read more: Extremist crimes in Germany down, number of fanatics up Municipal authorities have complained they lack the necessary resources to disarm all known members and that the legal process to revoke a weapons license is too protracted. Konstantin von Notz, a lawmaker with the Green party, told the Süddeutsche Zeitung that some officials were still underestimating the threat posed by the Reichsbürger scene. "The responsible authorities must finally take decisive action before something terrible happens again," he said, referring to the killing of an officer two years ago. Reichsbürger translates to "citizens of the Reich." What unites this loose movement is rejection of the modern Federal Republic of Germany. They believe the 1937 or 1871 borders of the German Empire still exist and today's country is an administrative construct still occupied by the Allied powers. Many subscribe to far-right or anti-Semitic ideologies. Their conspiracy theories have been debunked. The Reichsbürger scene is a disparate, leaderless movement totalling about 15,000 supporters, according to German intelligence officials. Of those, about 900 have been identified as far-right extremists and 1,000 have a license to own firearms. Authorities are concerned about some members' potential to become violent and have conducted several raids on Reichsbürger suspects to sieze weapons. Adrian Ursache, a 42-year-old former winner of the Mister Germany beauty pageant, is also a Reichsbürger member. He is currently facing trial for attempted murder after an August 2016 gun battle with police as they tried to evict him from his home. Typically, Reichsbürger refuse to recognize any state apparatus, printing their own passports and driving licenses. The case of Wolfgang P., who in October 2017 was sentenced to life in prison for murdering a police officer, is seen as a turning point for how German authorities deal with the extremist group. P., an alleged Reichsbürger member, shot at officers who were raiding his home to confiscate weapons. German authorities have been accused of long underestimating the threat posed by the Reichsbürger. Since the murder of the police officer in Bavaria, law enforcement has been cracking down on them more vigorously. In the past year there have been several raids on Reichsbürger targets. Some German police and military forces have also probed whether they may have Reichsbürger among their own ranks. Author: Samantha Early Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.