DW: It's been 17 years since the first US military operation against terrorism in Afghanistan. After all this time, the Taliban now again appear to be advancing. Can we still say that the NATO mission has succeeded? Knut Peters: Yes, I think we can, and I think there are a number of clear examples. I was first in Afghanistan in 2002 and I saw how the capital Kabul, along with the entire country, lay in ruins. Since then, I have spent more than a year of my life in Afghanistan and now I see that refugees from the entre world are returning – especially from Pakistan and Iran. Read more: Brussels summit: Why NATO needs to change its Afghanistan strategy These are people who have the courage to build a new future in this country and to clearly reject violence. This is an achievement for us today. Of course, the security situation in Afghanistan remains very difficult and complex. We continue to experience acts of violence, but we also make it abundantly clear that violence cannot solve conflicts. NATO presence is intended to provide the Afghan government a way to find a political solution. With this goal in mind, our assistance amounts to training and advising Afghan police and Afghan security forces. Colonel Knut Peters, spokesperson for NATO's Resolute Support mission But the Taliban has meanwhile expanded territories under its control, supposedly amounting to over 30 percent of the country. Anyone who knows Afghanistan – and like I've said, I have spent a lot of time in the country – also knows that numbers are a very difficult thing. They vary in the space of days, weeks or months. And there are interested parties that publicize numbers, which in turn cannot be verified. We are convinced that numbers are not the best measuring stick for ascertaining success in Afghanistan. We focus on condition-based outcomes. This includes conditions for political agreements – such as the upcoming elections. We are confident this is the right way forward. Read more: Taliban advance causes disappointment in Afghan government Erik Prince, the founder of the US private military contractor Blackwater, was in Afghanistan recently to lobby for the privatization of the fight against the terrorism in the country. What is NATO's position on the use of private contractors? NATO's position is that of Afghanistan's government. We are here at their invitation under a mandate from the United Nations. In recent days, the Afghan government has clearly rejected the use of private military contractors. It is out of the question for Kabul and therefore out of the question for NATO. Read more: Private military firms likely to stay in Iraq, Afghanistan despite criticism The US military has also clearly outlined its position on the use of private military contractors in Afghanistan. US Army General Joseph Votel, who heads the US Central Command, said a few days ago that the privatization of the war is out of the question. The proposal is absolutely not on the table for NATO. Repeated attacks in Afghanistan over the past several months have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. Last week, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted last year, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan last year, vowing to deploy more troops, on top of the 11,000 already in the country, to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain American presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. Despite President Ghani's offer in February for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban have shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations, as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Taliban now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001. Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams You mentioned the return of Afghan refugees as symbolizing the success of the NATO mission. At the same time, the UN is reporting hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons in Afghanistan. The security situation in Afghanistan is difficult and there is no sugarcoating it. Those who undertake acts of violence are responsible for this situation. This is why we support the Afghan government in ending this violence and finding political solutions. But the fact remains that the Taliban control rural areas. I already mentioned how numbers are a highly volatile matter in Afghanistan. I don't comment on numbers because their accuracy changes daily and weekly. What I can say is that the security situation is extremely difficult and Afghan troops are working with great courage and commitment to oppose the Taliban. That is a fact, and we continue in our steadfast support of the Afghan government. Read more: Civilian deaths hit record high in Afghanistan: UN Amnesty urges EU to stop deporting Afghan asylum-seekers After many years of delay, Afghanistan is set to hold parliamentary elections on October 20. To what extent can NATO guarantee security at the polls? These elections are purely a matter for the Afghans and NATO will not have a presence. What we have been doing for over a year is advising and supporting the Afghan government, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense in their planning and preparation. This includes developing security concepts for polling stations along with preparing election materials. This is a big logistical challenge for a large country like Afghanistan and we provide the support the government needs. Colonel Knut Peters is press speaker for NATO's "Resolute Support" mission based in Kabul, Afghanistan. This interview was conducted by Abdul Bari Hakim. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2oLzS