Facebook said Friday that hackers accessed personal data of 29 million users in a breach it disclosed two weeks ago. The exact number of accounts affected had not been previously known. The social media titan originally believed that50 million accounts could have been affected, but it didn't know if the data had been misused. The hackers accessed name, email addresses and phone numbers from those 29 million accounts and got even more data from 14 million of those, such as hometown, date of birth, the last 10 places they checked into or the 15 most recent searches.  Facebook intends to notify people whose accounts were hacked. "We now know that fewer people were impacted than we originally thought," Guy Rosen, Facebook's vice president of product management, said in an online post. Whether hate speech, propaganda or activism, governments across the globe have upped efforts to curb content deemed illegal from circulating on social networks. From drawn-out court cases to blanket bans, DW examines how some countries try to stop the circulation of illicit content while others attempt to regulate social media. After a public debate in Germany, a new law on social media came into effect in October. The legislation imposes heavy fines on social media companies, such as Facebook, for failing to take down posts containing hate speech. Facebook and other social media companies have complained about the law, saying that harsh rules might lead to unnecessary censorship. In 2014, the European Court of Justice ruled that European citizens had the right to request search engines, such Google and Bing, remove "inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant or excessive" search results linked to their name. Although Google has complied with the ruling, it has done so reluctantly, warning that it could make the internet as "free as the world's least free place." In May 2017, Ukraine imposed sanctions on Russian social media platforms and web services. The blanket ban affected millions of Ukrainian citizens, many of whom were anxious about their data. The move prompted young Ukrainians to protest on the streets, calling for the government to reinstate access to platforms that included VKontakte (VK), Russia's largest social network. In 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled that Safe Harbor, a 15-year-old pact between the US and EU that allowed the transfer of personal data without prior approval, was effectively invalid. Austrian law student Max Schrems launched the legal proceedings against Facebook in response to revelations made by former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor, Edward Snowden. In China, the use of social media is highly regulated by the government. Beijing has effectively blocked access to thousands of websites and platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest. Instead, China offers its citizens access to local social media platforms, such as Weibo and WeChat, which boast hundreds of millions of monthly users. Many politicians and media outlets blame Russia's influence for Donald Trump's election victory in 2016. Moscow reportedly used Facebook, Twitter, Google, and Instagram to shape public opinion on key issues. In October 2017, Twitter suspended over 2,750 accounts due to alleged Russian propaganda. The platform also banned ads from RT (formerly Russia Today) and the Sputnik news agency. With social media under pressure for allowing alleged Russian meddling, Facebook announced a new project to combat such efforts in November 2017. The upcoming page will give users a chance to check if they "liked" or followed an alleged propaganda account on Facebook or Instagram. Meanwhile, Facebook has come under fire for not protecting user data in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Author: Lewis Sanders IV (dj) Bug fixed The social media titan disclosed a cyberattack at the end of September that exploited three distinct software flaws to steal digital keys the company uses to keep users logged in. Facebook said engineers discovered a breach on September 25 and had it fixed two days later. The network reset the 50 million accounts it thought had been affected, requiring users to sign back in using passwords. Third party apps and other Facebook-owned apps like Whatsapp and Instagram were unaffected, the company said. One of the accounts affected was that of Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg. At the time of the attack, Zuckerberg said hackers would have had the ability to view private messages or post on someone's account, but there's no sign that they did. The breach was the latest embarrassment for Facebook, which acknowledged earlier this year that up to 87 million users had their personal data harvested by Cambridge Analytica, a political firm working for Donald Trump in 2016. The scandal forced Zuckerberg to face both United States Congress and EU Parliament. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/30wpO dv/ng (AFP, AP, dpa)