Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto announced on Friday that his government would offer benefits to Central Americans of the "migrant caravan" who apply for asylum in Mexico. In a video address, Pena Nieto spoke directly to migrants about the plan. "We know very well that what you're seeking is an opportunity, you want to build a new home and a better future for your family and loved ones. Today, Mexico lends you a hand," he said. The plan dubbed "You are at home," would grant migrants a temporary residence permit while their asylum applications are being processed. They would also be eligible to receive medical care, obtain a temporary job permit and enroll their children in school. To be eligible, migrants must currently be in the southern states of Oaxaca or Chiapas, near the border with Guatemala, and must have contacted authorities or requested asylum. "We are a country that values and recognizes the dignity of migrant peoples," President Pena Nieto said, adding that "nearly all of us have a family member or close friend that has emigrated." US authorizes military US President Donald Trump has warned that the migrants, who are traveling northward, pose a threat to the US, saying that "criminals and unknown Middle Easterners" were "mixed in" with the crowd. Trump has railed against Central American governments for not doing enough to stop the caravan and cited the incident as a reason for tightening immigration laws in the US. Read more: Migrant caravan 'could not be larger gift' for Donald Trump On Friday, US officials told Reuters news agency that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis had authorized the use of troops and other military resources at the US-Mexico border. While the Pentagon did not comment on the matter, officials told Reuters that some 800 troops could be deployed as early as Tuesday. Mattis is said to have authorized the army to provide "mission-enhancing capabilities" to US Customs and Border Protection, including engineering support to help build temporary barriers and housing. 'Everything is on the table' Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said on Friday that "everything is on the table" to deal with the problem of illegal immigration. "We are looking at every possible way within the legal construct that we have to make sure that those who don't have the legal right to come to this country do not come in," Nielsen said. Nielsen's made the remarks during during a visit to the first completed section of President Donald Trump's 30-foot border wall in the El Centro Sector, California. Read more: Hondurans fleeing poverty, violence: 'There is no other option' Fleeing violence and poverty According to organizers, some 5,500 men, women and children are taking part in the migrant caravan, while authorities put the number at 3,630. The caravan began in Honduras nearly two weeks ago and other Central Americans have joined it along the way. The caravan is comprised mostly of Hondurans, but Guatemalans and El Salvadorians are said to be taking part. Both Honduras and El Salvador have been plagued by rampant violence, while a lack of jobs has driven many Guatemalans to flee their country. Though Guatemala is Central America's largest economy, some 60 percent of Guatemalans live in poverty. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3773n jcg/amp (EFE, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.