Pennsylvania State Police were summoned on Wednesday to the rural compound of US-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen. A spokesman for Gulen said a compound security guard fired warning shots at an armed intruder, who subsequently fled the vicinity. There were no known injuries or arrests. Photographs shared online showed several police cars parked around the gated retreat in Saylorsburg, located in the Pocono Mountains. According to local broadcaster BRC News 13, police told residents to remain indoors as they were searching for the armed suspect in the area. However, authorities were seen driving away from the compound around an hour or two later. Gulen is accused by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of orchestrating the failed 2016 military coup against his government, in which rogue soldiers commandeered tanks and jets to attack the Turkish parliament building. Over 240 people died in the attempted putsch. Gulen, a former ally of Erdogan who later fell out with the prime-minister-turned-president, denies the allegations. He is in self-imposed exile in the US, but would be extremely likely to face immediate prosecution if he tried to return to Turkey. The Turkish government has since purged the country's military and civil service of tens of thousands suspected members of the Gulen movement. It is trying to secure Gulen's extradition from the US. Parliamentary speaker Binali Yildirim on Wednesday renewed criticism of Washington for failing to assist in the process, according to Turkish newspaper Hurriyet's online outlet. "Why don't you call even start an investigation," Yildirim asked US officials rhetorically in a speech at the TRT World Forum hosted by the Turkish state media channel. "Are you worried other things will come out? Turkey has presented several documents in front of them, but they have done nothing." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32rvH Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/msh (Reuters, dpa)