Dutch authorities thwarted an attempted Russian hacking attack on the United Nations chemical weapons watchdog, the Dutch defense minister announced on Thursday. Four Russian GRU agents were expelled from the country for attempting a cyber attack on the Organisation for the Prohibition for Chemical Weapons in the Hague, Ank Bijleveld told a news conference. The Russian ambassador has been summoned for an explanation. The group had allegedly positioned a car full of electronic equipment in the car park of the Marriott Hotel next to the OPCW building and were trying to hack its computer system. The equipment included a hidden antenna to intercept wireless network communications in the building. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32muO Inside, the OPCW was attempting to identify the substance used in the March poisoning of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Julia as well as the identity of a substance used in an attack in Douma, Syria. The group allegedly planned to travel on to a laboratory in Spiez, Switzerland used by the OPCW to analyze chemical weapons samples. "The Dutch government finds the involvement of these intelligence operatives extremely worrisome," Bijleveld said. "Normally we don't reveal this type of counter-intelligence operation." He said that a laptop belonging to one of the four was also linked to operations in Brazil, Switzerland and Malaysia. The Malaysia events were allegedly related to the investigation into the 2014 shooting down of flight MH17 over Ukraine. US charges seven Russians The US Justice Department announced after the revelations that it had charged seven Russian military intelligence officers with hacking anti-doping agencies and other organizations. Prosecutors said Russia targeted the hacking victims because of their public positions on Russia's state-sponsored athlete doping program. They said the GRU had also targeted a Pennsylvania-based nuclear energy company and the OPCW. US Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said Russia must be held accountable for its attempts to hack the OPCW. "Basically, the Russians got caught with their equipment, with people who were doing it and they have to pay the piper, they are going to have to be held to account. How we respond is a political decision by the nations involved," Mattis said after a meeting with his NATO counterparts. Canada too Shortly after the Netherlands revealed its claims, Canada said it too had been targeted by Russian cyber attacks. It said it had detected breaches at its centre for ethics in sports and at the Montreal-based World Anti-doping Agency. "The government of Canada assesses with high confidence that the Russian military's intelligence arm, the GRU, was responsible" for these cyber attacks, the foreign ministry said in a statement. NATO warning The head of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Jens Stoltenberg, warned Russia to cease its "reckless" behavior. He backed the Netherlands and the UK and said Moscow had shown a pattern of attempted election interference and disinformation campaigns. "NATO will continue to strengthen its defense and deterrence to deal with hybrid threats, including in the cyber domain," he said. NATO defense ministers were meeting on Thursday to discuss new offensive cyber capabilities. UK, Australian accusations Read more: UK, Australia blame Russia for series of global cyberattacks Earlier, British and Australian authorities accused Russia of being behind multiple global hacking attacks, calling it a "pariah state." British Defense Secretary Gavin Williamson said:  "Where Russia acts in an indiscriminate and reckless way, where they have done in terms of these cyberattacks, we will be exposing them." Russia responded to those allegations by calling them "big fantasies" and saying the UK had a vivid imagination. On Wednesday US news outlets reported that Washington was expected to make its offensive cyber warfare capabilities available to NATO, in an attempt to strengthen its defenses against Russian electronic attacks. aw/ng (AFP, Reuters, AP) A hackathon is a networking event for computer programmers. Your goal should be to connect people so that they can learn new approaches from each other. It is important to clearly state the problem to solve. Make sure the goal is attainable. If 25 % of the task is accomplished during the event, congratulations! Consider follow-up events for the rest. A sense of community and respect is paramount. Make newcomers feel at home. Participants who underestimate their own skills or are unsure about how to contribute can find it frustrating. If they feel they don't know enough, make sure they know why you chose them to participate. You might find that more guidance is needed than you thought, so have mentors ready to step in. No matter how advanced the participants are knowledge-wise, don't expect them to find solutions right away. Give them time! Try to create an environment that allows them to make headway. Make sure the venue is big enough. While they might work mainly at the computer, consider providing them with room to step back. They might want to sketch ideas on paper, for example, or go outside to brainstorm. Hackathons are not anarchic events. Divide the organizers' roles: some contribute ideas, for example, others calculate costs or research background information. Plan hackathon segments and follow your schedule: from the registration and introduction phases, to the team collaboration phase, to discussions with mentors, and to the presentation and final wrap up. Choose your workshop trainers and mentors carefully. They should be experts in their specific fields and know how to lead and motivate groups. Go for diversity when picking your trainers and mentors: find, for example, male and female experts and those from different age groups. Make sure accompanying workshops last no longer than 45 to 90 minutes. And know that two workshops per day are enough – the biggest asset of a hackathon is time for the working sessions. If you want your hackathon and its follow-ups to turn out results, you'll need money. Turning ideas into reality does not work without funding. In Moldova, DW Akademie awarded 3000 Euros each to the three winning teams. While it takes money to turn ideas into products, do not let money be the only motivation for taking part. Hackathons are creative, collaborative processes for finding solutions. One of the dangers is that teams come to hackathons with pre-conceived ideas, in an attempt to win prize money. But money should not be the only motivation. Stress that hackathons are about working together to develop new approaches, and about gaining experience and building new networks. And finally: do not call the event a hackathon just because it sounds good. If it's not about programming and working with computers it's a workshop and not a hackathon. Author: Yulia Alekseeva, Heidi Walsh