Social background plays a major role in the performance of a student in German schools, a study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) revealed Tuesday. The study found that students from low-income families were at a greater disadvantage in Germany than in many other countries, but the situation was "slowly improving." What did the OECD study find? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2oODW 'Little headway' "Too little headway has been made to break down the barriers to social mobility and give all children an equal chance to succeed," said Andreas Schleicher, OECD Director for Education and Skills. "More investment is needed to help disadvantaged students do better, including recognition of the critical role that teachers have to play," he said in a statement. "There is no country in the world that can yet claim to have entirely eliminated socio-economic inequalities in education," the report said, advising that "Countries can ... target additional resources towards disadvantaged students and schools, and reduce the concentration of disadvantaged students in particular schools," The good performers: In South Korea, 57 percent  of the kids achieve a higher level of education than their parents. In Finland, the number is 55 percent. In New Zealand, 39 per cent of children whose parents did not complete their lower secondary education managed to achieve a university degree. PISA Test: The report evaluated the results of the OECD's latest Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), which surveyed some 540,000 15-year-olds in 72 countries. The Pisa Test 2015 examined performance in the fields of reading, mathematics and natural sciences. Pupils were also asked about the education and occupation of their parents, as well as about other factors such as whether there were books in the family home. ap/rt (AFP, KNA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.