"I was 10 years old when I hugged my grandmother for the last time. I was 10 years old when my childhood was taken away from me." The audience is quiet as 15-year-old Rojin N. reads a poem about her lost youth in her hometown in Syria. Rojin is taking part in a youth culture festival for unaccompanied minor refugees and their guardians being held by the Protestant social welfare group, Diakonie Wuppertal, in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia. At the festival, the young asylum-seekers are reading texts about their experiences of fleeing their homeland. They are part of the Berlin-based group The Poetry Project. Initiated in 2015 by Susanne Koelbl, a foreign correspondent from weekly news magazine Der Spiegel, the project aims to help the young refugees overcome feelings of alienation in their new country and express themselves through poetry. ‘Look forward, not backward' After she fled Somalia in 2015, 17-year-old Mushtaag A. is grateful for the chance to share her story on stage. She came to the festival accompanied by Monika Küpper, a teacher she was connected with through a project of the Diakonie Wuppertal called "Do it!" Küpper volunteered to be the teenage girl's guardian. "These young people are not here for no reason," Küpper says. "I had no idea what it meant, to flee your homeland," adding that she learned from the students how difficult such a journey is. For Küpper, the current hostility towards refugees in Germany is incomprehensible when taking into account "how good we have it here." Read more: Stateless Syrian baby calls Belgium home Mushtaag is emphatic with her desire to continue learning; she wants to improve and strives to get better at German and at school. Her wish is to graduate and go to university. Mushtaag hopes to become a math teacher just like her guardian, to "look forward, not backward." Küpper explains that Mushtaag's father was kidnapped in Somalia. She said her journey to Germany was treacherous, even if Mushtaag came by plane instead of a dinghy across the Mediterranean. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticized by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart 'All the little ones were dead' But others came by sea, like Shahzamir H. "There were so many children in the boat when it capsized. I was terrified," says the teenage boy from Masar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan. He describes the deadly horror he saw on the passage from Turkey to Greece. "Everybody was screaming, me as well." Shahzamir reads his poem in Dari, then it is translated for the audience: "A mother drowns before my eyes, her child in her arms."  There were 65 people on board. They waited for two hours in the cold water to be rescued. "Of those, 20 people survived. All the little ones were dead." Read more: Europe's migrant rescue boats face uncertain future The 17-year-old was brought to a hospital where, after 20 days, he was able to call his mother. He assured her that he had arrived safe and sound: "How could I tell her that for 10 days all I could manage was chocolate milk because my body was full of salt water?" Visibly moved, the audience is silent, then everyone claps their hands. "When people ask how we're doing, we keep it light and friendly, we say that we're doing well," but the trauma is unforgettable for the teenager. With their poems, the young refugees want to show "that we are not bad people," he says. However, Shahzamir adds that he is "completely terrified" of what will happen once he comes of age because Afghan asylum-seekers are increasingly being deported from Germany. 'Fortune lives here, but so does hardship' An Afghan refugee who grew up in Iran, Yasser N., 15 years old, dedicates a poem to his brother who stayed behind: "Believe me, it's no paradise. Fortune lives here, but so does hardship." A poem by Robina K., 17, also deals with injustice and hardship. "It is not a crime to be Afghan," stresses the teenage girl who fled Kabul. Robina believes that Afghans are "underestimated" and that every country is capable of producing philanthropists, geniuses and criminals. "Why are we Afghans all punished for behaving badly," she asks. In her poem, the daily reports of bomb attacks in her homeland weigh in heavily. "So many people die, children, women," she reads but struggles to finish as tears stream down her face. "Stop torturing us," she continues, almost pleading with the audience. Read more: Aid money alone can't stop root causes of migration: data analysis 'If you have a goal, you'll get there' All in the group want to graduate from high school in Berlin, and every member of the group appears determined. "It's tough at high school," says Rojin from Syria, but that doesn't deter her. "If you have a goal, you'll get there. It was my goal to learn German, and I've achieved that, too." Robina's guardian, Sophia Schlette, points out that despite arriving in Germany in a traumatized state, Robina still managed to finish with top marks at her Berlin high-school class in the summer semester. Schlette is supporting her case with immigration authorities. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36x7J While state custodians are responsible for many youths, a voluntary guardianship means one-on-one care. In Wuppertal, the "Do it" project connects volunteers with young people and teaches prospective guardians what they have to consider in their interactions with traumatized people. They take part in workshops on intercultural competence, learn about the duties of a guardian and how to work with the state department for youth welfare. Read more: Germany's family reunification policy can leave young adults in limbo 'My life is safe with them' "Do it" matches refugees with guardians. One happy example of their successful pairing is Halimatou D., 17, from Guinea and guardian Raffaella Di Lucrezia. Halimatou fled from an arranged marriage. Di Lucrezia is Italian and, before coming to Germany, she lived in the UK for a long time — she herself knows what it's like to feel like a foreigner. Like most unaccompanied minors, the Guinean teenager lives in a shared accommodation that is intended to get them on their way to independence. Halimatou cooks with Di Lucrezia and goes to kickboxing, visits museums, and relatives of her guardian and her husband, Burghard Klenke. They share happy moments filled with laughter. The 17-year-old, who lost her father and fled to Europe across the Mediterranean, feels secure. "When I'm with them, my life is safe." She is grateful for the assistance and the chance it gives her to learn. "If you don't learn, you have no future," she says. Read more: How do deportations work in Germany? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3517L Taking a stance against racism The feedback coming from the schools the teenagers attend is overwhelmingly positive, says Maria Shakura, a consultant for Diakonie refugees. "They are all so enthusiastic to learn. But they are also concerned that the social climate is deteriorating." Shakura recalls the eagerness expressed in the community to accommodate refugees in 2015 and 2016. Now, she says, they receive strange looks and there has even been a change in treatment in their experience with authorities. "Even employees who have always been totally friendly now behave differently," she says. Even worse, says Shakura, is the increase in racist insults and violence. She speaks of an incident where a young refugee from Afghanistan "was beaten to a pulp," noting that the incident went unreported. Monika Küpper sees her guardianship as a stance against racism and exclusion. "It's wonderful to have got to know her," she says. "It has changed and expanded my view of the world. I would recommend it to anyone." Read more: Refugees in an 'enemy country': Exiled Turks in Thessaloniki Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35KS7