Manuel Neuer — 4 Perhaps could have done more to keep out Virgil van Dijk's opener in the first half. He should also parried the shot from Memphis Depay that led to the home side's second goal. Matthias Ginter — 7 The Gladbach man won several balls in the air against Dutch veteran Ryan Babel. He also came up with a terrific clearance on a Denzel Dumfries cross from the right that kept Germany in the game. Jerome Boateng struggled against the Netherlands Jerome Boateng — 3 He was a disinterested bystander during the Netherlands' first two goals. He was outdone by Georginio Wijnaldum before the Dutchman scored a third in stoppage time. The real question is: why is Boateng still a starter in Germany's team? Mats Hummels — 4 He was not as culpable for Germany's humiliating performance as Boateng was, but he had his own difficulties. But the Bayern Munich defender was at least able to get a shot on target from a Toni Kroos corner. Jonas Hector — 4 Hector was out of his depth when the Netherlands would break forward, and his failure to spot the run of Babel led to the hosts' opener. Read more: Six big questions for Germany to answer Joshua Kimmich — 5 Once again playing in holding midfield, he held up well as Germany's safety valve. However, he was also exposed on the break in the later stages of the game, which was one reason why the Dutch were able to add to their lead. Emre Can — 5 One of Joachim Löw's surprise starters, Can started the game rather well, winning the ball high and playing players in behind the Netherlands defense. His contributions dropped off after the opening minutes, though, and he was subbed off shortly after halftime. Toni Kroos — 6 Playing next to Kimmich, the Real Madrid man was Germany's best playmaker. Unfortunately, his teammates up front could not finish the chances he helped to create. Read more: Toni Kroos defends Joachim Löw after Michael Ballack criticism Thomas Müller — 5 Moving from flank to flank, Müller combined well with his teammates and wound up in the right place at the right time. He left a lot of chances begging, though, and his inefficiency in front of goal cost Germany. Mark Uth made his Germany debut against the Netherlands Mark Uth — 6 For a man making his first-team debut, Uth played relatively well. He started the game strong, winning tackles and creating chances out of nothing. But his presence in front of goal was still not great enough to solve Germany's striker issues. Timo Werner — 5 Werner had the pace and the power we are used to seeking in the Bundesliga, but like Müller, he had Germany fans covering their faces with the chances he missed. Substitutes Leroy Sane — 6 He had a terrific chance to put Germany level but had as much luck finding the target as Müller and Werner did. Julian Draxler — 5 He slotted into Can's playmaking role and performed admirably. He was however pushed off the ball by Daley Blind, which lead to Wijnaldum's stoppage time goal. Julian Brandt — 6 He again was very active off the bench, helping the visitors pile on pressure near the end of the contest.