With over 600,000 inhabitants, Stuttgart is the biggest city in Baden-Württemberg. The city center lies in a valley basin nestling between vineyards, offering a daily physical challenge for locals, who have to climb or descend the more than 400 steep flights of steps around the city. One of the many attractions in the town center is the "New Castle," former residence of the kings of Württemberg. Baden-Württemberg is seen as the home of inventors and innovators. With his universal combustion engine, Gottlieb Daimler created the basis for the automobile. Today, the Mercedes Benz museum traces the history of the automobile, from the early days to the current prototypes and test vehicles. And if sports cars are more your thing, then you should be sure to head to the Porsche Museum. The idyllic town of Freiburg is surrounded by forested hills and home to almost 230,000 inhabitants. The gothic cathedral and the pretty old town center alleyways are definitely worth a visit. Enjoy a choice of numerous cafes and pubs offering excellent food. Recent environmental protection projects have also earned the city the title of being the German capital for ecological friendliness. The Black Forest, with some 20 million overnight stays every year, is Baden-Württemberg's most visited region. Its highest peak, the Feldberg, is 1,500 meters (almost a mile) high. It is also home to Baden-Württemberg's biggest nature reserve. 250,000 tourists flock to this spa area annually. It offers something for all seasons, from hiking to skiing. This has become a symbol for both Baden-Württemberg and the Black Forest: the cuckoo clock. It still has the same traditional design as it did in the mid 19th century. You can find the biggest examples of these clocks in the towns of Schonach and Triberg, where they reach over 15 meters (about 50 feet). The Black Forest cuckoo clock remains a popular tourist souvenir. Many artists have immortalized this city, among them Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Mark Twain. The Heidelberg Castle is the landmark of the town. What once served as the residence of rulers still towers above the old town center and the Neckar river. Heidelberg University has also left its mark on the city. Founded 630 years ago, it is the oldest university in present day Germany. Baden-Württemberg's Rheinau wetlands offer floodplain forests, vast meadows and a network of intertwined river arms, where the Rhine still flows unrestrained through nature. The ever changing water level is the life blood of the floodplains, benefitting rare animal and plant species. These are best seen from a flat barge, a boat used by local fishermen to navigate the ancient Rhine tributaries. The Hohenzollern Castle is located in the foothills of the Swabian Alps. With its many turrets, battlements and vaults, it is regarded as a prime example of Gothic Revival Architecture. The castle still belongs to the Hohenzollern family, the former German imperial house. It attracts over 300,000 visitors every year. Baden-Württemberg is a Mecca for haute cuisine. 74 restaurants boast at least one Michelin star, more than in any other German state. The small village of Baiersbronn, in the northern Black Forest, is home to two 3-star and one 2-star Michelin chefs. The most famous among them is Harald Wohlfahrt, who combines French cuisine with regional dishes. Lake Constance is the third largest lake in central Europe. Its shorelines lie in Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria, as well as Switzerland and Austria. The climate is so mild that palm trees and hibiscus grow here, making visitors feel like they have traveled far south. Another highlight is the island of Mainau, where over a million flowers bloom every year. Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg This state in south-western Germany is known worldwide, especially for the Black Forest. In fact, the "Ländle," or "little land," as the locals affectionately call it, has much more to offer: culture in the state capital Stuttgart, romanticism in Heidelberg and, with more than 70 Michelin-starred restaurants, one of Germany's finest cuisine. Black Forest: A magnet for tourists No other region in Baden-Württemberg attracts more tourists: the Black Forest stretches from Lake Titisee to the Feldberg, the state's highest mountain. The distinctive Bollenhut hats, with their wide brims and pompoms, and cuckoo clocks are well-known symbols associated with it. Nicole Frölich, who hosts our TV travel show, Check-in, says the snow-covered countryside in winter is especially appealing. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2XIzm Stuttgart: State capital Lukas Stege, who  hosts our TV travel show, Check-in, explored Baden-Württemberg's state capital in the summer – both the valley and the surrounding hills.  He tasted the regional wine and tried his hand at motor racing. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1JU2U  Raffle: Which of Germany's 16 states would you like to visit? Write us and win a DW suprise travel set.  A trip to Hohenzollern Castle Film backdrop, travel destination and ancestral seat of the imperial House of Hohenzollern: the castle that sits atop the Zollerberg in the Swabian Alb is like something out of a medieval fairy tale. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2RTwu Lake dwellings in Unteruhldingen: UNESCO World Heritage site On Lake Constance, where Baden-Württemberg borders on Austria and Switzerland, a UNESCO World Heritage site awaits visitors -  with replicas of prehistoric stilt houses from the Stone and Bronze Ages. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2RQYz Highlights in a 360-degree-video Lake Constance, with its crystal-clear water and its islands with their palm trees, attracts many visitors every summer. The island of Mainau with its lush flowers and the Monastic Island of Reichenau, a UNESCO World Heritage site, are well-known day-trip destinations. Use the mouse on your computer or your finger on your smartphone to choose what you want to see. Click on the video and drag the image sections wherever you want. If you are using a PC, use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox as a browser. And if you have VR glasses, you can watch the video in virtual reality. Your trip to Germany Are you looking for recommendations for your visit to Germany? We've got them: Tips for Germany - state by state.