A number of governments this week accused Russia of counterintelligence and cyber espionage operations in the West. Germany added its condemnation on Friday. The list of allegations includes hacking campaigns aimed at state institutions, doping investigations, and chemical weapons probes in Syria. Here's a look at the most important revelations about Russia's covert acts of hybrid warfare on foreign soil. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/360dk Government networks The UK's National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) said  the GRU had attempted to hack several British targets, ranging from the foreign ministry to computer systems of the UK Defense and Science Technology Laboratory. NCSC named several aliases Russia's principal military intelligence agency — the Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) — uses to conduct cyberattacks, including CyberCaliphate, Sandworm, Tsar Team and Voodoo Bears. The UK also attributed several ransomware attacks that crippled digital infrastructure across Europe, such as BadRabbit, to the GRU. The German government said it believes "with almost absolute certainty," that a hacking group known as APT28 "is the Russian military intelligence agency GRU." Berlin has attributed cyberattacks on the Bundestag — Germany's lower house — and the federal government's data network on APT28, which also goes by the name Fancy Bear. Read more: Hack of German Foreign Ministry part of 'everyday spying' Without a doubt, Russian President Vladimir Putin has tried to restore Moscow's importance in the international arena following the collapse of the Soviet Union. Analysts believe Russia's cyber offensive played a part in that. MH17 probe Dutch Defense Minister Ank Bijleveld said Thursday that the GRU attempted to undermine an investigation into the 2014 crash of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17. "We have been aware of the interest of Russian intelligence services in this investigation and have taken appropriate measures," Bijleveld said. Earlier this year, international investigators said evidence suggests that a Russian surface-to-air missile had shot down flight MH17 over war-torn Ukrainian territory. All 298 people on board were killed, the majority of them Dutch nationals. OPCW Dutch authorities also said the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) was targeted by Russia while investigating a chemical weapons attack in Syria allegedly committed by Moscow-backed regime forces. Four GRU agents tried to intercept OPCW Wi-Fi and login codes from a car parked in a hotel near the organization's headquarters in The Hague. They were arrested at the scene of the crime. Dutch intelligence said the agents had links to cyberattacks against the Spiez Laboratory in Switzerland, one of only five laboratories certified by the OPCW. The lab was reportedly used to probe samples linked to both the poisoning of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal, and chemical attacks in Syria. Last month, Switzerland said the lab had been targeted by GRU hackers posing as Swiss federal authorities. On March 4, former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his 33-year-old daughter were found slumped on a bench outside a shopping center in the British town of Salisbury. Authorities said both were in a critical condition after being exposed to an "unknown substance." Skripal was a former general of Russian military intelligence who had been convicted in Russia for spying for the UK. Russia denied any knowledge of the poisoning, which echoed the murder of former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko in 2006. Litvinenko was poisoned with radioactive polonium-210. "We see that such a tragic situation happened," Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists on March 6. "But we don't have information about what could be the cause, what this person did." On March 7, British police said they suspected a very rare nerve agent was behind the poisoning of Skripal. "This is being treated as a major incident involving attempted murder by administration of a nerve agent," Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner Mark Rowley said in a statement. "I can also confirm that we believe the two people originally who became unwell were targeted specifically." British police said more than 21 people had sought medical treatment as a result of the nerve agent attack. On March 8, UK Home Secretary Amber Rudd told the House of Commons that enormous resources were being used to determine who was behind the attack. Rudd called the use of a chemical nerve agent on British soil a "brazen and reckless" act that would be answered with all possible force. On March 12, British Prime Minister Theresa May told lawmakers it was "highly likely" Russia was behind the poisoning. May said the Russian government had either ordered the attack or lost control of the Russian-produced chemical nerve agent Novichok. She gave Moscow until midnight on Tuesday to explain its Novichok program to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. On March 13, vice president of the European Commission European Union, Valdis Dombrovskis, said the EU would stand in solidarity with Britain after London accused Russia of being behind the nerve agent attack. When asked if the EU might impose sanctions of Russia if it was agreed Moscow was responsible for the attack, Dombrovskis said: "Of course, the UK can count on EU solidarity in this regard." Russia failed to respond to May’s midnight deadline for an explanation of its suspected involvement in the poisoning. On March 14, a spokesperson for the Russian Embassy in London said Moscow would not respond "until it receives samples of the chemical substance." May had said a "full range" of retaliatory measures would be considered if Moscow did not give a "credible response" by the deadline. After Russia failed to give an explanation, May announced on March 14 that the UK would expel 23 Russian diplomats identified as "undeclared intelligence officers." May also said the UK would suspend all high-level bilateral contact with Russia. The biggest expulsions from London in 30 years would "fundamentally degrade Russian intelligence capability for years to come," May said. On March 15, the leaders of France, Germany, the UK and US released a joint statement that demanded "complete disclosure" from Russia saying there is "no plausible alternative" to Moscow's involvement. The statement said the attack using "a military-grade nerve agent, of a type developed by Russia" constituted "an assault on UK sovereignty" that threatened "the security of us all." In retaliation to the UK, Russia said it would also expel 23 British diplomats, giving them the same one-week deadline. Russia’s Foreign Ministry said it would also close the British Council in Russia, and might take further measures against Britain in the event of more "hostile steps" from London. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, had said Moscow would "of course" respond with expulsions. "It's complete drivel, rubbish, nonsense that somebody in Russia would allow themselves to do such a thing ahead of elections and the World Cup," Putin said on March 19. "It's quite obvious that if it were a military-grade nerve agent, people would have died on the spot." Putin said Moscow "destroyed all our chemical weapons under international oversight unlike some of our partners." On March 20, UK scientists determined Skripal was poisoned using a little-known nerve agent from a group of chemical compounds known as Novichok. The family of compounds, which were developed in the 1970s and 80s, comprise numerous nerve agents. The Soviets once developed these weapons to circumvent the Chemical Weapons Convention. Novichok-5 and Novichok-7 are supposed to be the most dangerous. A number of EU countries teamed together on March 26 and simultaneously announced they would be expelling Russian diplomats. Germany, France, Poland, Italy, Denmark, the Netherlands, Latvia and Ukraine all announced they would be expelling Russian envoys. The US followed suit with the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats and announced the closure of Moscow's consulate in Seattle. UK police found the highest concentration of the nerve agent on the front door of the Skripal's family home in Salisbury. They believe that is where Skripal and his daughter must have first come into contact with the poison. It was likely mixed in with a "gloopy substance" smeared on the door handle. In early July, weeks after both Skripals were discharged from the Salisbury hospital, another two people were apparently poisoned with the same substance in the nearby town of Amesbury. A 45-year-old man and a 44-year-old woman were found unconscious and were transported to the same hospital in critical condition. Author: Louisa Wright WADA Swiss prosecutors also claimed in September that two GRU agents staged a cyberattack against the World Anti-Doping Agency's (WADA) regional office in Lausanne. In 2017, confidential files of several high-profile athletes were posted online. WADA said the files were taken during a data breach, with British authorities blaming GRU for the cyberattack. On Thursday, the US Justice Department indicted seven GRU agents, including two for attempting to hack WADA. John Demers, US assistant attorney general for national security, said the agents had targeted WADA, along with the football governing body FIFA, US nuclear energy company Westinghouse and the OPCW. Canadian authorities also said on Thursday that they believe Moscow had targeted the WADA regional office in Montreal along with its center for sports ethics. DNC The US and Western allies said this week that GRU hackers were behind cyberattacks against the US Democratic Party and its governing body, the Democratic National Committee (DNC). Since December 2016, US intelligence agencies have accused Russian hackers of attempting to influence the presidential elections that year in favor of now-President Donald Trump. 'Spy mania' Moscow has denied any involvement in the cyberattacks. Russia's foreign ministry said the allegations amount to "Western spy mania," and warned that it "is gaining momentum." Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov warned Washington and its allies of "intentionally fueling tensions … between nuclear states," saying it is a "dangerous road" in comments carried by the TASS news agency. "Canada and those European countries that are loyally servicing American claims to global hegemony should also think about this," Ryabkov said. Born in St.Petersburg in 1952, Putin signed up with the Soviet intelligence agency the KGB right out of law school in 1975. His first assignment was to monitor foreign nationals and consulate employees in his home city, then called Leningrad. He was then assigned to Dresden, East Germany. He reportedly burned hundreds of KGB files after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Putin was one of the deputies to St Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak from 1991 to 1996. Sobchak met Putin at Leningrad State University and the two men were close until Sobchak's death in 2000. Despite accusations of corruption, Sobchak was never charged. Putin quickly leapt from St.Petersburg to Moscow. In 1997, President Boris Yeltsin gave Putin a mid-level position on his staff — a position Putin would use to cultivate important political friendships that would serve him in the decades to come. Putin was deeply affected by Anatoly Sobchak's death in 2000. After the apprentice outstripped his teacher politically, Sobchak became a vocal early proponent of Putin's bid for the presidency. A year earlier, Putin used his political connections to have fraud allegations against Sobchak dropped, the beginning of a pattern for friends of the former spy. In June 2000, Boris Yeltsin stepped down, leaving his prime minister to become interim leader. As he was running for his successful presidential campaign, corruption allegations from his time on the city government in St.Petersburg resurfaced. Marina Salye, the lawmaker who brought up the claims, was silenced and forced to leave the city. When Putin was constitutionally barred from running for a third consecutive term in 2008, his Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev ran in his stead. When Medvedev was elected, he appointed Putin as premier. This led to criticism of a "tandemocracy," in Moscow, with many people believing that Medvedev was Putin's puppet. In March 2018, Vladimir Putin was elected to his fourth term as president. Because the presidential term has been extended, this means Putin will be in power for the next six years. However, the election was marred by a lack of opposition to the incumbent, as well as allegations of vote tampering and ballot-stuffing. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.