The first thing you notice about Tynemouth's beaches is how clean they are. The minute your dog delivers an unexpected "parcel" that ruins the view, at least two fellow walkers will approach you, proffering bags to clean it up. The village, which sits, as the name suggests, on the mouth of the Tyne river in northeast England, is serious about the pristine condition of its beaches and bays. Residents and visitors take part in regular group and individual — or two-minute  — beach clean-ups. Read more: Visiting Kenya a year into its plastic bag ban Read more: Guatemala's oldest colonial city Antigua bans plastics Tynemouth's dedication to a litter-free coastline hasn't gone unnoticed. At the start of 2018, it became the first community in the area and the second nationwide to be awarded "plastic free" status as part of a campaign by the green charity Surfers Against Sewage (SAS). There's also good reason for Tynemouth's dedication. In the UK, hundreds of millions of tons of plastic are produced yearly and more than 35 million plastic bottles are used every day. Some estimates suggest nearly half of those bottles don't get recycled. The rest end up in landfills — or the oceans. Even his bigger 'business' doesn't stay on the beach for long What is 'plastic free?' Given the material's pervasiveness and convenience,  the term "plastic free" is certainly more aspirational than factual. But it reflects an attempt to reduce plastic, item-by-item and community-by-community. To qualify for the status, at least six businesses in any community have to commit to replacing three single-use plastics in their supply chain. They also have to raise awareness in schools and gain support from local authorities. Read more: Six data visualizations that explain the plastic problem A number of communities around the UK are now striving for the SAS plastic-free title and Penzance in southeast England — the other town that has been awarded the status — already has 70 local business involved in shedding the oil-based material. In Tynemouth, the local aquarium has phased out plastic sachets of sauce, as well as plastic straws and lids in its cafeteria. Staff are also brushing the teeth of the aquarium's resident seals with plastic-free toothbrushes. In Tynemouth, anyone can and is encouraged to take the initiative, including in the form of a '2 minute beach clean' At Riley's Fish Shack — a local institution on the pretty King Edward's Bay beach — visitors gaze out to sea, munching their grilled chili squid out of compostable Vegware boxes rather than polystyrene or plastic. "Tynemouth is one of the best seaside villages in the country and the environment is central to seaside regeneration," said Alan Campbell, Tynemouth's representative in the UK parliament. "The great thing about this project was, it is bottom up — surfers, residents and businesses coming together to make change happen." Growing awareness The SAS campaign is just one example of the seemingly sudden shift in attitudes to plastic. Environmentalists say conservative and liberal media outlets taking up the anti-plastic crusade are a part of the reason for the change. In 2016, The Daily Mail, a tabloid not famous for its environmental coverage, ran four front pages calling for a ban on microbeads in cosmetics. The government promptly announced it would outlaw the use of the tiny particles. Read more: Microplastics endanger whales and sharks Read more: Time to clean up the ocean garbage dump Similarly, Sky TV launched its "Ocean Rescue" campaign in January 2017 with a commitment to phase out single-use plastics in its canteens and offices by 2020 and a pledge to plough more than £20 million (€22.6 million, $26 million) into schemes to protect marine ecosystems. People from all walks of life are actively striving for change, says Greenpeace But the moment that really captured the public imagination came at the end of last year when broadcaster,  naturalist and British national treasure Sir David Attenborough's latest Blue Planet series aired to record audiences, showing them the true impact of plastic waste on the ocean and its wildlife. "I think Blue Planet had somewhere to land," said Will McCallum, head of ocean campaigns at Greenpeace UK. "There were campaigns up and running that people could ask about and get involved with." The power of starting small Grassroots campaigning is another reason for the changing tides and Natalie Fee is just one example of how such campaigns can reset the agenda. Fee founded the City to Sea group during a meeting with like-minded friends and volunteers in a Bristol pub in 2014. Two years later, they shot onto the national scene with a "switch the stick" campaign, calling on retailers to switch to paper rather than plastic cotton-bud stems. Read more: Want to stop plastic pollution? Take a hike Read more: Plogging: Germans take to the new eco-friendly fitness craze "I didn't really have any expectations, I was just really fed up with the cotton bud situation and thought that was something I could try and do something about," Fee told DW. Awards and TED talks followed. The group now has 17 full-time staff and has just overseen the UK's first National Refill Day, which is all about getting people to refill their bottles with free tap water from participating business rather than buy new bottles. So far, 12,500 restaurants, train stations and other business have signed up to the scheme and are searchable using an app. According to a current study, 85 percent of UK residents are aware that there is a plastic problem Still, Fee says she's surprised by how mainstream the plastic issue has become. "It's an easy access point into environmentalism," Fee said. "We recently commissioned a survey which showed that 85 percent of people in the UK are concerned about plastic pollution and are trying to do something about it." McCallum, who has just written a new guide for people trying to live a plastic-free life because of the explosion in interest in the topic, expressed similar sentiments. "When you look at it, it does kind of make sense because there is a real tangible link between the things you're holding in your hand and the thing you find on the beach," he told DW. Read more: Germany's waste problem: Recycling isn't enough Read more: Plastic bottle recycling champion: Norway or Germany? A long road ahead Old habits die hard though and despite plastic reduction schemes by businesses, such as supermarkets, there's still a long way to go. David Potts the chief executive of supermarket chain Morrisons recently admitted that only one in ten patrons were using a bring-your-own packaging scheme at the stores' deli counters. Back in "plastic free" Tynemouth, soft drinks in single-use plastic bottles are still easy to find. Even Riley's Fish Shack sells water in plastic bottles. "There is no alternative material that we can use at the scale that we use plastic that's going to solve this problem," said McCallum. At the same time, he says there is no recycling infrastructure equipped to deal with the volume of plastic the UK produces. "So the only way out of the mess we're in," added McCallum, "is to produce less of it."  Plastic is lightweight, durable — and wildly popular. We've produced 8.3 billion metric tons of the material since mass production began in the 1950s. Because it doesn't easily biodegrade, much of what we've made now lives in landfills like this one on Nairobi's outskirts. Rubbish pickers there hunt for recyclable plastics to earn a living. But a lot of plastic also ends up in the ocean ... Some 90 percent of plastic enters marine habitats via just 10 rivers: The Yangtze, the Indus, Yellow River, Hai River, the Nile, the Ganges, Pearl River, Amur River, the Niger, and the Mekong. These rivers run through highly populated areas with a lack of adequate waste disposal infrastructure. Here, a fisherman in the Philippines removes a fish and crab trap from plastic-filled waters. Some animals have found uses for plastic waste. This swan nested in garbage on a Copenhagen lake that is popular with tourists. Her cygnets hatched surrounded by waste. It's not the best start to life. But for some animals the consequences are much worse ... Although plastic is highly durable and can be used for products with a long lifespan, such as furniture and piping, about 50 percent goes to disposable products, including single-use cutlery and six pack rings that end up in the natural environment. Animals, like this penguin, are in danger of becoming entangled and dying as a result. Other animals mistake the material for food. This albatross chick was found dead on Sand Island in Hawaii with multiple pieces of plastic in its stomach. According to one study of 34 seabird species in northern Europe, Russia, Iceland, Svalbard, the Faroe Islands, Scandinavia and Greenland, 74 percent had ingested plastic. Eating the material can lead to organ damage and blockages in the gut. Even larger animals aren't immune to the effects of consuming plastic. This whale was found struggling to breathe and swim in a Thai canal. As rescuers attempted to save the animal, it vomited five plastic bags and later died. During the necropsy, vets found 80 shopping bags and other plastic garbage had clogged up the whale's stomach, so the marine creature could no longer digest nutritious food. We're well aware of the large pieces of plastic bobbing on the ocean's surface, as is pictured here off the Hawaiian coast. But did you know, trillions of tiny particles less than 5 millimeters in diameter are also floating around in there? These particles end up in the food chain. Sea plankton, which are an important source of food for fish and other marine animals, have been filmed eating them. Tentative measures to cut down on disposable plastic have already been taken in some African countries with bans on plastic bags, while the European Union is looking into prohibiting single-use plastic products. But if current trends continue, scientists believe there will be 12 billion metric tons of plastic on the planet by 2050. Author: Jennifer Collins