Hurricane Leslie could turn out to be the fiercest to hit Portugal since 1842, meteorologists warned on Saturday as the storm approached, packing winds up to 120 kilometers per hour (75 miles per hour). The severe "red" warning applied to 13 of Portugal's 18 mainland districts. Its impact was expected through Saturday night into Sunday on a path through norhtern Portugal and Spain. The storm was downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone as it closed on the Iberian peninsula. The Portuguese Institute for Sea and Atmosphere (IPMA) said Leslie would continue to lose intensity after making landfall and pass to the category of "post-tropical storm." Portugal's National Protection Agency advised residents to "avoid at all costs walking on the street." Gale-force winds and flash floods were forecast from the US National Hurricane Center (NHC). Town of Sesimbra near Lisbon lies in hurricane path It said Leslie would produce rainfalls of 25 to 75 mm (1 to 3 inches) and at some locations as high as 125 mm (5 inches), which would cause flash flooding. Throughout the weekend, Leslie's ocean swells were also expected to wrack Madeira, the Azores and the Canary Islands. Experts warned of "life-threatening surf and rip current conditions." Spawned in the western Atlantic The storm had been spawned in the western Atlantic two weeks ago before heading toward the Iberian Peninsula. Hurricanes formed on the American side of the Atlantic rarely bring their destructive force to Europe. Only five are on record, including Hurricane Ophelia whose air mass fueled forest fires in Portugal and Spain in 2017. Spanish meteorologists expected Leslie to reach Spanish mainland territory early Sunday before weakening to a tropical storm. Spain's Mediterranean island of Mallorca [Majorca] is still recovering from massive rainfalls and flash floods, especially in its eastern coastal regions, last Tuesday that killed 12 people, including tourists from Germany. ipj/rc (AFP, dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.