While technical aspects of driverless cars have been widely reported and discussed, the debate has now reached the morality of autonomous vehicles. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) published a new survey this week detailing preferences for the ethical decisions that autonomous vehicles may need to make when faced with unavoidable accidents. Such information could be used to inform the software within driverless cars, as well as the policy and laws in countries where they operate. Read more: Driverless cars now really without a driver in California tests When accidents are unavoidable, how should driverless cars decide which pedestrian to run over? The results showed a preference for human lives being spared over those of animals. More value was placed on a group of people as opposed to one or a few, and there was an expressed desire to save children before older people. However, these results were not universal. Cultural differences were found in the survey, such as a weaker preference to save young people over the elderly in many Asian countries. Millions of players participated in 'Moral Machine' The survey included a multilingual online game, which researchers named the "Moral Machine." Participants were asked their preferred outcomes in a series of hypothetical dilemmas faced by autonomous vehicles. The result of the game was a compilation of almost 40 million decisions made by more than two million participants in 233 countries. Additional survey data was collected from respondents in 130 countries. 491,921 participants offered their demographic data to be studied. The researchers analyzed the data as a whole and by demographic subgroups like gender, income, age, education and religious views. The MIT's "Moral Machine" game is still available for you to play The main differences found were based on geographic and cultural divides, though all of the regions preferred sparing law-abiding bystanders when having to choose between hitting them or jaywalkers. Read more: Uber suspends autonomous car testing after fatal crash While few codified policies have been passed for driverless cars, the German Ethics Commission on Automated and Connected Driving proposed the following in 2017: "In the event of unavoidable accident situations, any distinction based on personal features (age, gender, physical or mental constitution) is strictly prohibited. It is also prohibited to offset victims against one another. General programming to reduce the number of personal injuries may be justifiable." The game remains accessible online here, so you can make some hard decisions yourself! This Audi A7 is packed with sensors. In early 2015 it drove all the way from Silicon Valley to the CES trade fair in Las Vegas. About 600 miles on the highway. Somebody's sitting behind the steering wheel - just in case. All went well during this trial. This prototype of Mercedes Benz - the F015 - shows how an autonomous car could look like: There is no driver's seat anymore. Instead the passengers are facing each other. This test vehicle, which was also developed in Silicon Valley, can achieve a maximum speed of 125 mph. Google has been testing its robotic vehicles in Mountain View for a long time. But until now somebody has always been behind the wheel to intervene if necessary. Autonomous cars are very safe. They are programmed to slow down if something isn't right. They will always keep a safe distance and certainly never tailgate others. These two autonomous cars of the University of the Bundeswehr (German army) in Munich compete in a "mule scenario." The second car always follows the first. At the military robotic competition ELROB they have to find their way in unpaved rugged territory - and they succeed. Major accidents are frequently caused by limited vision, for instance in foggy conditions. People drive too fast and fail to keep the necessary distance. Intelligent robotic cars would not make such mistakes. In the future cars could be interconnected allowing them to send information on upcoming traffic jams to the cars behind. Robotic cars see the world around them with different eyes: The Google car uses a laser-sensor for a 3D scan of its surroundings. The car from the University of the Bundeswehr is driving through rugged terrain. The laser scans the surroundings and the computer designs a three-dimensional map. Robots can also see with other sensors. This one at the Fraunhofer Institute for Communication and Information FKIE uses a regular USB-camera for its optical vision. Small radar sensors and GPS receivers determine the precise location on the map. Researchers at Daimler are also using optical cameras to build safer cars. The sensors behind the windshield observe what is happening on the road. Daimler's active traffic safety systems earned the company a nomination for Germany's Invention Award (Deutscher Zukunftspreis) in 2011. The sensors recognize a pixel cloud. The computer can determine how fast different sections of the picture are moving from the pixels. This gives the computer a complete impression of what is going on around the car. The computer determines where the object is likely to move and will act accordingly: The pedestrian, coming from the right, is marked orange - danger. The traffic on the left is green - no danger. Author: Fabian Schmidt