The effects of climate change are all too real. The world is warming, sea levels are rising, species are on the verge of extinction and millions of people are suffering — both physically and mentally. Although these effects can be seen and felt all around us, the data measuring these impacts can be complex and confusing if not presented properly. That's where visual data scientists come in. Their job is to collect and convey statistics showing the impacts of climate change so that governments and policymakers can make informed decisions based on the best available evidence. If that evidence is too complex or too broad to understand, then policymakers could have a hard time deciding on how best to handle certain problems. That's according to visual data scientist Thomas Nocke from Germany's Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, who says visuals are vital when conveying large amounts of data. "Of course, you cannot explain everything that's behind the statistics and you need to target the correct audience, but visuals are easily digestible and easily understood and can be used to present complex information directly and in powerful ways," he told DW. Read more: Will AI change the future of music? Nocke admitted, however, that scientific visuals are somewhat limited — and that this limitation can hinder development and progress when used to inform the public. "We don't enjoy the same creative freedom that artists enjoy, which means our visuals can only go so far in raising awareness," he added. Can an algorithm be creative? Climate data art Maja Petric, an artist who lives on the American Pacific coast in Seattle, wants to raise the bar and convey climate data in unique, inspiring ways so that more people can become aware of climate issues. "I'm very passionate about using cutting-edge technologies such as AI as an artistic tool to engage people's emotions. That's why I've created a custom AI system called AIEye to capture people's perspective on climate change," she said. Petric explained that the AIEye algorithm she helped to create with computer scientist Mihai Jalobeanu searches thousands of images on the internet for climate change-related phenomena, such as air pollution, global warming, overpopulation and deforestation. The system then processes all the found images, analyzes their salient properties and summarizes the data into one image — or an image within thousands of evolving images — that she calls the "Lost Skies." The images used for Lost Skies come from Hurricane Maria, California wildfires and other natural disasters. The purpose of the images, she explained, is intended to express the essence of nature affected by climate change. AI advantages in art But she admitted that her artwork wouldn't have been possible without artificial intelligence. "My AIEye program sifted, learned and reasoned through massive amounts of data that no human would ever be able to review," she explained. That being said, Petric is firm that human creativity created the project, and that it was her imagination that got things off the ground in the first place. Each pixel in Lost Skies evolves as the algorithm progresses, says Maja Petric And while some people fear the advancements of artificial intelligence and how the new technology could impact the world, Petric welcomes its inclusion. "AI will not replace art. I believe AI has a capability to exceed certain human abilities, but I believe that human creativity is not one of them," she said. Read more: AI could help us protect the environment — or destroy it AI has also been instrumental in other fields, and most recently has aided students at Stanford University as an environmental monitoring tool in detecting environmental violations through data analysis and predicting where funds can yield the most benefits. It has also helped in reducing energy consumption in Google data centers around the world. In a way, artificial intelligence has become a game changer in fighting climate change. And it's about to make a lasting impact in the art world as well. "It's important for artists to use AI and it's crucial for AI to be used by artists. AI will shape our world more in the next 100 years, and as a woman artist, I want to be part of that conversation right now," Petric said. Raising awareness of climate change through comics — that's the goal of Zambian cartoonist Mwelwa Musonko, founder of Foresight Comics. His work includes cartoons on Germany's energy transition, drawn in 2018 while on the International Journalists' Programme (IJP). This cartoon looks at the focus on immigration in Germany and Europe — ignoring the "elephant in the room" that is climate change. In another cartoon, Mwelwa's pen takes aim at how the world's meat and dairy sector is heating up the planet. Drawn while on a placement at Clean Energy Wire in Germany as part of the IJP, it followed a report from the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy and GRAIN in 2018 that said the world's livestock industry could eat up 80 percent of the globe's allowable carbon budget by 2050. Mwelwa, aka "Tax," also gave his take on Germans' attitudes to the energy transition. This came on the back of surveys suggesting that while Germans support a switch to renewables in principal, they're less keen on the costs that come with it. The artist told DW that cartoons are a great way to communicate the dangers of climate change, saying: "Art is a perfect way of getting a message through." This cartoon was inspired by data showing Germans are reluctant to say goodbye to their petrol and diesel cars in exchange for an electric vehicle, despite the government offering a €4,000 ($4,676) subsidy per car. Two years after Germany launched the subsidy scheme, only one-sixth of the earmarked funds have been used, said a report from the Federal Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control. Germany's lignite mines also got Mwelwa's satirical treatment in this cartoon. Lignite, or brown coal, is extracted using opencast mining in Germany and it made up around 23 percent of the country's power production in 2017, according to AG Energiebilanzen (Energy Balances Group). Lignite-burning power stations are high on the list of Europe's largest CO2 producers. In 2018, Mwelwa came up with a unique way to raise climate change awareness by launching a comic book series. The Fifth Element follows the adventures of superhero Quin Ence, a 10th grader in Lusaka, Zambia, as she battles to save the planet from global warming. He told DW he created the series over concerns that "the majority of Zambians think that climate change is a foreign problem." Mwelwa hopes the comics will raise awareness of climate change among children and teens — using eye-catching cartoons to overcome what he calls an aversion to reading in Zambia. "The reading culture where I am from in Zambia is really, really bad," he told DW. "So, if you would give somebody a book with pictures in it, I think it sparks their interest. Trying to create value with this art." Mwelwa decided to make his superhero a girl because it "brings a different thing to the table," telling DW that comic book writers are increasingly talking about creating more female characters. He added: "If you follow my comic book, you start to see that this character is not perfect. Her life is miserable, and she rises above all of that to save the world and fight climate change." Author: Melanie Hall Bridging art and science Petric also highlighted the importance of science in art. "In many ways, my art is inspired and shaped by science. Science provides us with information, facts and organized knowledge that can be cognitively processed. Art, meanwhile, is a medium that is deeply visceral and has potential to emotionally convey data, information and stories. As such, art is moving and can make a lasting impact," she said. Thomas Nocke, who had some experience creating data artwork as a university student, welcomes the artwork and others like it but says science is still the most important medium when presenting data. "I worry that such artwork maybe takes too much away from the data. But in the end, climate science needs visuals and typically, these visuals are very important," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2eevU