Dirty Deals Zita and her family lose everything when a fire destroys the low-income settlement where they live. Some of the neighbors think it was an accident, but Zita, a young law student, starts investigating to find out who is responsible. She discovers that not just her former settlement, but most of the city’s infrastructure was built on corrupt deals, ignoring safety standards and putting the citizens at risk. She starts a social media campaign to uncover the dirty deals and raise awareness – which means stepping on dangerous ground, and soon the threats start coming in. Did the young woman bite off more than she can chew or will she really make a difference in the fight against corruption? This story was written by Chrispin Mwakideu (Kenya)  Sweeping Up Likalongo Much to his surprise, the young African entrepreneur Randolph is arrested after a landslide at the town’s uncontrolled dumping site. He is held responsible for the 27 victims of the landslide – when all he wanted was to reduce and recycle waste with his garbage collection service Sanosso Eco Agency. Rosa, an environmental blogger, and Randolph’s colleagues Mathilda and Rama, try to prove Randolph’s innocence. During their troublesome quest, they discover that there is more to waste management than meets the eye. They also nail down the ones who wanted to use Randolph as a scapegoat to hide their own failures. This story was written by Hurcyle Gnonhoué (Benin)  It Takes a Village The teenage sisters Hope and Jane seem to be living an ordinary life in a small African town with their mother. But they have a secret which is weighing heavily on them. When their mother dies, the girls try to live alone without telling anyone. While trying to keep up appearances, Jane and Hope get into even more trouble. Their friends, the street kids Sara and Leroy, try to help them, but eventually their secret is revealed: the girl’s father turns up. He had been violent towards his family which is why they fled. Will the sisters finally get the support they need to protect their rights? This story was written by Carla Fernandes (Angola)