With every year and every prize, the Nobel committee releases a single line that encapsulates why it chose to recognize the winners and their work. But that single line seldom makes a lot of sense to non-scientists, and it never paints the full picture. It's also often unclear where these Nobel discoveries are applied in everyday life, or how relevant they are to regular people. Read more: James P. Allison, Takusu Honjo win Nobel prize in medicine for cancer therapy research This year, the committee decided to award the Nobel Prize in medicine to James P. Allison, a professor at the University of Texas in the US and Tasuku Honjo, professor at Japan's Kyoto University, for "their discovery of cancer therapy by inhibition of negative immune regulation." The committee writes that by "stimulating the inherent ability of our immune system to attack tumor cells this year's Nobel Laureates have established an entirely new principle for cancer therapy." But what does that all mean? If it's inherent, why do we need to stimulate it? What is "immune regulation," anyway, and how do we use it in medicine? Let's see if we can unravel a few Nobel mysteries. Nobel Prize winners James P. Allison and Tasuku Honjo loom large in the field of cancer therapy and immune regulation Stops and starts The human immune system attacks all kinds of bad stuff in our bodies, from common bacteria and viruses to really bad stuff, like tumor cells. But the body sometimes prevents the immune system from doing its job. It "inhibits" the immune system. Before Allison and Honjo's discoveries in the 1990s, basic research had already shown the existence of proteins in the body that either help to trigger an immune response or slow it down. That's known as "immune regulation." Read more: Pooping in the name of science These proteins can supercharge a process whereby "T-cells"— the white blood cells that flag up threats to our health — bind themselves to pathogen invaders. The proteins, or "T-cell accelerators," trigger a fully blown immune response. Allison and Honjo wanted to figure out how proteins' "brake function" could be controlled to encourage the immune system to fight back against cancer. Allison wanted to learn more about a protein called CTLA-4, while Honjo had discovered a new protein called PD-1. The brake function is a complex and necessary mechanism. We do need to apply the brakes once in a while. For instance, once a threat has been neutralized — or brought under control — the immune system has to scale back its response to avoid causing damage elsewhere. An overactive immune system — one that is not scaled back — can cause autoimmune destruction. That's when the immune system attacks healthy cells and tissues that the body recognizes as "self." Autoimmunity can occur in people suffering from infectious diseases and cancer, and can include multiple sclerosis, asthma, Crohn's disease, celiac disease, and type 1 diabetes. Read more: Impotence test: Would you stamp your penis like a parcel? Immune checkpoint therapy Honjo and Allison's research has led to a new form of cancer treatment, known as "immune checkpoint therapy." As with other therapies, such as surgery and radiation, immune checkpoint therapy is not without its risks. There are potentially life-threatening side effects, including overactive immune responses that do indeed lead to autoimmune reactions. So far, according to the Nobel committee, checkpoint therapy involving PD-1 has been most promising. It has shown "positive results" in treatments against lung cancer, renal cancer, lymphoma and melanoma — a form of skin cancer. The most recent research suggests a combination of PD-1 and CTLA-4 may improve results further, including the outcomes for patients. So there are at least three things we we can do with the 2018 Nobel Prize in medicine: Doctors can use checkpoint therapy to treat and manage cancer. Scientists can intervene to regulate the immune system. And one imagines that by understanding more about overactive immune responses, scientists have a better chance of treating poorly understood autoimmune diseases, including Crohn's. Born in 1815, Ada Lovelace was the daughter of the famous poet Lord Byron. A gifted mathematician, she is said to have written instructions for the first computer program in the mid-1800s. She is considered the first person to realize that computers, still not a reality, had potential beyond mere calculation. Lovelace is known chiefly for her work on Charles Babbage's proposed "Analytical Engine." Marie Curie was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize. Not only that, she was the first person to win one twice. Born in Warsaw in 1867, she became a naturalized French citizen. Curie shared the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics - for research on radiation phenomena - with husband Pierre and physicist Henri Becquerel. She won the 1911 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discovering radium and polonium. Rosalind Franklin never received a Nobel Prize, although many believe she should have. Biophysicist Franklin was an X-ray crystallographer whose practical work was heavily relied upon by James Watson and Francis Crick in their discovery of the DNA double helix, which won the Nobel prize for medicine. By the time the prize was awarded, Franklin had died of ovarian cancer. British biochemist Dorothy Hodgkin was a contemporary of Franklin, and the two shared their expertise with one another. Hodgkin developed crystallography techniques to give an insight into the structures of biomolecules and won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1964, becoming the third woman to do so. Five years after winning, Hodgkin was the first person to decipher the structure of insulin. Australian-American Elizabeth Blackburn won the Nobel Prize for Physiology/Medicine in 2009 for her work on telomeres - the protective tips that lie at the end of our chromosomes. Blackburn co-discovered the enzyme telomerase, which allows telomeres to be replenished. Telomerase allows cells to go on dividing, so it appears to influence aging and could have implications in cancer research. British primatologist Jane Goodall is considered the world's leading expert on chimpanzees and has spent decades studying the social and family interactions of wild chimpanzees in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania. She came up with names for many of the animals, drawing criticism from some who accused her of anthropomorphizing. Born in Italy in 1909, Rita Levi-Montalcini had her career cut short by Benito Mussolini's laws banning Jews from academia. Undeterred, she he set up a lab in her bedroom and studied the growth of nerve fibers in chicken embryos. After the war, she worked in St. Louis, where she isolated Nerve Growth Factor from cancer tissues. She shared a 1986 Nobel Prize for that with colleague Stanley Cohen. In 1967, Northern Irish physicist Jocelyn Bell Burnell discovered a signal that pulsed at a regular rate. The signal, detected by rediotelescope, was dubbed the "little green man." It turned out not to be alien communication, but a rapidly spinning neutron star - the first "pulsar" to be detected. In 1974, her supervisor jointly won a Nobel Prize for pulsar work. Bell Burnell was not a recipient. Author: Richard Connor