The US Treasury on Tuesday announced it was slapping sanctions on a multibillion-dollar business network that financed an Iranian paramilitary group suspected of training and deploying child soldiers. In a statement, the Treasury said the Bonyad Taavon Basij business network provided a financial infrastructure to the so-called Basij Resistance Force, a paramilitary force that works for Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). "This vast network provides financial infrastructure to the Basij's efforts to recruit, train, and indoctrinate child soldiers who are coerced into combat under the IRGC's direction," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36Oyn The Basij military group is accused of training fighters for the IRGC, including children as young as 12. Those children are  then reportedly deployed to Syria to prop up the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad. "The international community must understand that business entanglements with the Bonyad Taavon Basij network and IRGC front companies have real world humanitarian consequences," said Mnuchin. Major Iranian businesses targeted Among the businesses targeted in the latest round of sanctions are eight major regional banks and investment firms. In its statement, the Treasury also singled out Iran Tractor Manufacturing Co, the Middle East's largest tractor manufacturer, and Esfahan's Mobarakeh Steel Co, the biggest steelmaker in the Middle East and North Africa Region. Read more: Attack on Iranian military parade may harden domestic and regional policies Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32fVr Also targeted was Iran's Zinc Mines Development Company, which Treasury described as the country's "preeminent, multibillion-dollar zinc and lead mining and processing holding company." The sanctions bar American citizens or entities from doing business with the network of companies. It also freezes all assets the network might have under US jurisdiction. Iran bracing for oil sanctions Tuesday's sanctions come just as US President Donald Trump is set to impose his second tranche of sanctions on the Tehran regime next month. The phase will target Iran's oil exports and financial sector. That will add extra hurt to Iran's economy, which is already ailing under the first phase of sanctions introduced in August and subsequent withdrawal of European firms from the country. Read more: EU plan to sidestep Iran sanctions: How will it work? After withdrawing from the landmark Iran nuclear agreement earlier this year, the Trump administration has been vocal in its intent to punish Iran for its reportedly malign role in the Middle East and support for militant groups. US officials, however, have refrained from calling for regime change, demanding instead that Tehran fundamentally change its behavior. US sanctions on Iran target Tehran's trade in gold and precious metals, block the sales of passenger jets, and restrict Iran's purchase of US dollars, among other punitive measures. The US is also planing to block Iran's key oil sales in the next tranche of sanctions, which is due to go into force in November. Impovershed North Korea is under a UN-backed embargo, but Washington also maintains an extensive regime of sanctions on its own. For example, the US strictly bans exporting weapons to the pariah state. Also, the US uses its global clout to penalize non-US banks and companies who do business with Pyongyang. Washington trade restrictions prevent the regime of Bashar Assad exporting Syrian oil to the US. All property and assets of the Syrian government in the US are frozen. Americans, wherever in the world they might be, are banned from "new investment" in the war-torn country, according to the US Treasury. The US blacklisted scores of high-ranking Russian officials and businessmen after the 2014 Crimea crisis, halting them from traveling to the US and freezing their assets. The comprehensive sanctions list includes goods from the Russian-annexed region, such as Crimean wine. New sanctions imposed in the aftermath of the Skripal poisoning target sensitive national security and defense goods. American tourists started flocking to Cuba immediately after the Obama administration initiated a thaw in relations in 2016. Under Donald Trump, however, the White House reimposed travel restrictions for US citizens, making it much harder for Americans to travel to the island. At least one Obama-era concession is still in place, however: it is still legal to bring Cuban cigars and rum to the US. Author: Darko Janjevic Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/aw (Reuters, AP, dpa, AFP)