"If not now, then when?" thought Dana and Julia. The two young women have travelled from their hometown of Olpe to the Central Mosque in Cologne, not despite but precisely because of the negative headlines surrounding its opening by the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It's already hard enough for Muslims, Dana and Julia say. Too many people are going around with prejudices and irrational fears. For these two women, participating in the mosque open day was also a way of signaling that Islam is part of Germany. Dana, Julia and the other visitors have been sitting on the soft blue carpet in the big prayer room of the Central Mosque, listening to the speaker's words of welcome. Read more: Islam in Germany: Muslim prefer to be talked to rather than talked about The atmosphere is relaxed and peaceful. Many of the visitors are busy snapping photos, tilting their heads back to admire the 35-meter-high (115 feet) transparent dome. Light floods in, filling the room and lighting up the gold calligraphy on the walls. The "Open Day at the Mosque" has taken place every year since 1997. This year, around 900 houses of prayer opened their doors to visitors, including the Central Mosque in Cologne — the largest mosque in Europe outside Turkey. The prayer room can hold up to 1,200 worshippers, but it doesn't have many visitors yet. Little by little other guests start arriving. At first journalists seem to be in the majority. No surprise there — this mosque is famous, not just because of its size. Visitors came to the mosque on Germany's Day of Unity Finished at last after nine years, this impressive building of steel, glass and concrete is the central mosque of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs (DITIB). The association has long been regarded as an instrument of Ankara, rather than an independent German organization. The fact that it was the Turkish president who opened the mosque last Saturday has caused a lot of displeasure. Missed opportunity Today, the integration minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, Joachim Stamp, also gives an address — and he takes the opportunity to criticize DITIB. "I would have liked the inauguration of the mosque to have been a symbol of German Islam," he said, while having the Turkish president open it had given a different impression. "That really takes the cake. Not even the architect attended!" an elderly woman declares. She doesn't want to give her name, but says she's outraged at how the opening went last weekend. "It was an opportunity for Turks and Germans to celebrate together." Read more: German Islamic association denied religious lessons in school Her view of the mosque itself isn't clouded by this event though, she says. The mosque is capable of being just as powerful an influence for integration as other houses of God: "But everyone must contribute." Both the woman and the friend with her consider it their duty to come here and inform themselves about Islam and about the mosque. People who come here are open "A lot of curious non-Muslims have come," says Cengiz Özen, who is himself a visitor and a Muslim. He's pleased. He thinks many people are curious about this mosque in particular — because of Erdogan, of course. Actually, though, he says, that shouldn't be a reason. "Just as Muslims should visit churches, non-Muslims should be able to come to mosques. Days like these help dismantle prejudices against Muslims." The Open Day at the Mosque, which is intentionally held on the same day as the celebration of German unification, aims to create a space for contact between Muslims and non-Muslims. The mosque offers tours, invites people to attend lectures and allows guests silently to participate in the prayers. Dialog is the magic word. Cengis Özen says the mosque has a pleasant atmosphere Not everyone thinks it's a good thing. Sabri says the Open Day offers not dialog but "Dialüg" — in other words, that it's a lie. The 38-year-old with the conspicuous beard came to see what image of Islam is being conveyed to the non-Muslims. His conclusion is the same every year: That it's an inauthentic one. Sabri believes that, for it to be authentic, Islam must be lived exactly as it has been handed down in the Quran and the Sunna, the body of Islamic custom and practice based on Muhammad's words and deeds. For him, then, this mosque open day is a farce. Read more: Muslims 'integrate' well into Germany — but aren't accepted For everyone else, it's a chance to get into conversation and to see with their own eyes something that was previously strange and unfamiliar. As they explore all the nooks and crannies of the complex, the faces of most visitors are open and interested. Sabri, on the other hand, has already beaten a retreat. And of course there are others who won't walk up the steps to the main entrance of the Central Mosque, even on a day like this. The building was designed with glass walls and a staircase accessible from the street, symbolizing openness to people of all religions. It features two 55-meter (60-yard) minarets and a dome of glass and concrete which appears to open like a flower bud. The mosque is located in Cologne's Ehrenfeld district, a formerly a working-class quarter. Ehrenfeld suffered a rise in unemployment and poverty when factories closed in the 1970s. Some time later, however, low rent prices lured in artists, galleries and theaters, ultimately gentrifying the area. Today, 35 percent of locals there have an immigrant background. The construction was funded by hundreds of Muslim associations, but also bank loans and donations from the Turkish government's religious affairs authority in Germany, DITIB. Cologne city council approved the plans in 2008, despite Chancellor Angela Merkel's party, the conservative Christian Democrats, voting against it. Architect Paul Böhm, who specializes in building churches, won the contract in 2005. He saw the building as an act of integration. He later fell out with the new leadership of DITIB and stopped working on the project in 2011. The mosque first opened for prayer during Ramadan in 2017, but was only officially opened by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan during his visit to Germany in September 2018. Inside the mosque, there's a prayer area which takes up both the ground and the upper floor, with the two sections connected by a well in the center of the building's glass front. The compound houses an Islamic library. There are also shops and sports facilities intended to foster interactions among people of different faiths. Some residents were shocked by the sheer size of the construction when the plans were first presented, especially the height of the minarets, and feared a change in the skyline of their "Christian city." Then-Cardinal Joachim Meisner, the archbishop of Cologne, admitted to having "an uneasy feeling" about the project. Right-wing politicians picked up on the sentiment and launched a heated debate about the integration of Muslims in Germany. Author Ralph Giordano said the mosque would be "an expression of the creeping Islamization" in the country. In 2017, German authorities launched an investigation into the activities of DITIB imams, who are schooled in Turkey and paid by the Turkish state, as well as other people working in the Cologne complex. Mosque employees were suspected of spying against Turks living in Germany on behalf of the Turkish goverment. Author: Rina Goldenberg