VW announced on Thursday a series of measures which the carmaker says will improve air quality in Germany through the renewal of the existing fleet of diesel vehicles on the country's roads. First reported on Thursday in the German tabloid Bild and by the news agency DPA, drivers of various VW Group cars in the 14 most polluted German cities will be offered generous trade-in rates by the carmaker for their older diesels in order to persuade them to buy new ones. The premium will apply to diesel cars with the emission standards Euro 1 to Euro 4, with those cars ranging in age from more than 10 to 25-years-old. The aim of the suite of measures from the Wolfsburg-based manufacturer is to avoid diesel bans in cities across Germany. The trade-in/scrappage deals will apply to vehicles across the Volkswagen Group stable, including from the Seat, Skoda and Audi brands. The premium offered may go as high as €10,000 ($11,518), according to the news agency DPA, although that will only apply to especially large vehicles. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2x8Cn Volkswagen said on Thursday that the amount offered for each car would depend on the size of the vehicle, and said discounts as high as €8,000 would apply. 'A comprehensive package of measures' "The successful environmental incentives for scrappage of Euro 1 to Euro 4 diesel vehicles of any make are again being offered by some of the Group’s brands throughout Germany," the carmaker said in a statement. "Vehicle keepers in the 14 cities classified by the federal government as having the highest levels of pollution and in the surrounding areas will be entitled to the new exchange premiums. These premiums will be paid in addition to the vehicle’s residual value when trading in a Euro-4 or Euro-5 diesel vehicle of any make. The environmental incentives and exchange premiums come into immediate effect and are valid until further notice." Read more: German diesel pumps still flowing despite retrofit talks The newest diesel vehicles, Euro 6 models that around three years old or so, are not part of the scheme. Munich, Stuttgart, Cologne, Reutlingen, Düren, Hamburg, Limburg an der Lahn, Dusseldorf, Kiel, Heilbronn, Backnang, Darmstadt, Bochum and Ludwigsburg are the 14 German cities designated as being special cases because of their high levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) pollution. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36EwJ VW added that brands from across its commercial stable, such as Audi, Seat and Skoda, would be announcing details of their own specific scrappage schemes. Never mind the retrofit, here's the trade-in Earlier this month, Germany's coalition government announced details of a diesel deal it had struck, aimed at dealing with the country's air pollution problems while also avoiding diesel bans or wholesale retrofits. The deal unveiled was based on a combination of trade-in incentive schemes and still unspecified retrofit options for older diesels. So far, the major German car manufacturers have provided scant information on what part in the deal they will play, particularly in the area of hardware retrofits. The Volkswagen statement on Thursday did not mention the topic of hardware retrofits on polluting diesels — a contentious topic for carmakers given that it is the most expensive option, from their perspective. Extensive retrofitting had been signalled by various politicians as part of the recently agreed government deal but the VW announcement appears to firmly steer the discussion around diesel back to scrappage schemes. "Volkswagen’s first environmental incentive from August 2017 to June 2018 successfully demonstrated that systematic fleet renewal is a swift and efficient way of improving air quality," the statement from the carmaker said, noting that 210,000 old diesel vehicles were taken off the roads "and replaced by modern, cleaner models" during the period it question. About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was September 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But it wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc aos/kd (dpa, Reuters)