The German artist who created a spinning ceramic penis admitted on Wednesday that the man who had broken the artwork at an exhibition had inadvertently helped to raise awareness about her work. "Of course this incident was an advertisement for me," Anna Maria Bieniek said, adding: "I won't make a big drama out of it." Read more:  A Vienna museum covers up its penis problem The ceramic sculpture was one of three 40 to 60-centimeter (15 to 23-inch) colorful penises on display at the Kunstpalais Erlangen exhibit in southern Germany on October 21. Shortly after the exhibit opened, a fellow artist inadvertently toppled the penis while he was trying to read an explanatory note about the piece. The sculpture, which had not been sold yet, was spinning on a round base at the time. 'I'm not Banksy' Bieniek said she immediately thought to herself: "I'm not Banksy." A piece by the anonymous British Graffiti artist intentionally destroyed itself after it was sold at auction in early October. Looking at works created between 1861 and 1967, the exhibition includes this artwork by pre-Raphaelite painter Simeon Solomon. The poet Sappho, here at right, is drawn to appear androgynous while her lover, Solomon, maintains traditionally female attributes: Her bare shoulder and breast are centered in the painting. Two doves on the wall behind the floor symbolize their love for each other. This painting by Scottish artist and Bloomsbury member, Duncan Grant, was his contribution to the dining room of the Borough Polytechnic. Inspired by travels to Sicily and Rome, Grant created this mosaic of seven idealized male bodies swimming and diving in the water. Critics at the time referred to the art as degenerate and "Bathing" was recognized as a queer intervention in a public space. When British artist Laura Knight exhibited this piece in 1913, a "Telegraph" journalist said it was nearing on vulgarity. He wasn't alone in his opinion at the turn of the century. Yet Knight decided to present herself in the picture as an artist painting the naked woman. It was a self-aware gesture, confirming her identity as an artist. Also on display in the Tate show: Henry Scott Tukes' "The Critics," one in a series of paintings by the artist in which persons are shown lying near water or sunning themselves. This work was released two years before Tukes' death, at a time when nude bathing was just coming into fashion. For the paintings, he worked with models he met in Cornwall. The coast of Falmouth provided the backdrop. Men dressing up as female characters on stage was part of a long tradition in Great Britain, as up through 1660, acting roles were only to be handed out to men. This black- and-white image taken by photographer Paul Tanqueray shows comedian Douglas Byng, famed for roles in which he pantomimed women. His songs were filled with sexual innuendo and puns. John Craxton lived on Crete after 1960 and often found himself inspired by the Mediterranean. He created portraits of men from around the islands, including this portrait of a tanned sailor of the Aegean done in Cubist style. The attractive presentation of men, including the fishermen and shepherds that served as models for Craxton, had homoerotic undertones. Author and storyteller Quentin Crisp wanted to appear like a female film star in this photo captured by Angus McBean. In the black-and-white image, you can see that the androgynous author has succeeded in doing so, exhibiting long eyelashes and a soft facial expression. "He really was one of the most beautiful people I have ever photographed," said McBean afterward. The Bloomsbury Group ushered in a modern, unconventional era in art that was increasingly "queerer." At the beginning of the 20th century, the group of artists' bohemian response to sexuality influenced literature, academia and art. Virginia Woolf was a member of the group, as was Hannah Gluckstein, aka Gluck. In this self-portrait, she showcases her short hair and preference for menswear. Influential artist David Hockney created this cover for the magazine "The Young Physique," which displayed attractive, young, muscular men in athletic poses. This painting was part of his thesis at the Royal College of Art, which positioned the male artist's objectification against the eye cast on female life models. Author: Bettina Baumann (ct) The 39-year-old Bieniek said that while she welcomed the subsequent media attention, she "regretted" that exhibit visitors could no longer "enjoy a perfect observation" of the original artwork. She also hoped that people did not forget to focus on the art itself. Bieniek has repaired parts of the penis since the accident, but decided to leave a large crack open. Expressing men's libido The idea behind the work emerged from Bieniek's self-professed "anger" toward men. She said men are too often overpowered by their sexual urges. Read more: Does the penis ever get bored? "I expressed the penis's libido and inability for self-control through the movement of this nearly lifelike phallus," she said. Bieniek hopes the man's insurance will cover the damages. "Artists also need to make a living," she said. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.