Police on Tuesday searched a flat in Cologne, as they investigate Monday's  attack and hostage-taking at the city's central train station, with the perpetrator already in custody and severely wounded following his arrest. They said they were not ruling out terrorism, as multiple witnesses told the police that the suspect had claimed allegiance to "Islamic State" during the attack. The man is a 55-year-old Syrian with a criminal record, officers said. The man remains severely injured in a Cologne hospital; a police spokeswoman said on Tuesday that she did not have any updates about his condition. Authorities have also urged the public to upload footage and photographs taken during a hostage-taking situation to an online portal as they search for more clues into the attack. What happened: A highly-trained special police unit was deployed to secure the station and end the hostage-taking situation What happened to the suspect? The man received life-threatening wounds when special police commandos stormed the pharmacy. Medical staff successfully resuscitated him shortly after police ended the situation. According to police on Tuesday, he is in stable condition and receiving medical attention at an intensive care unit. Read more: 'Germany needs a national strategy' for radicalization prevention What happens next? Police said on Tuesday that the investigation was "running at full speed." Forensics specialists have taken samples from the train station in a bid to find out more about the attack and its perpetrator. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. A man took a woman hostage at a pharmacy at Cologne train station around 12:45 p.m. (1045 UTC) on Monday, police said. Police believed the hostage-taker was armed. "We're doing everything to get the hostage out of there unharmed," police spokesman Christoph Gilles said initially. Cologne train station, one of the biggest in the country, was evacuated and cordoned off. Police urged locals to avoid the area and warned of likely disruptions to train services. Deutsche Bahn, Germany's main train operator, said the station would be closed until further notice and all traffic, including long-distance connections, had been suspended. DW's Dana Regev was at the scene and watched as negotiation crisis units. Police spokesman Christoph Gilles said they were working to find out "what the hostage-taker wants, what his demands are and whether he carries a weapon," adding that police were not aware of the man's motive. Police could not confirm eye-witness reports that shots and explosions were heard. Ambulances and heavily-armed police were lined up and waiting behind the train station. DW's Dana Regev reported that two shots had been fired inside the station. A 14-year-old girl was seriously injured with burns during the course of the hostage situation. Police captured the hostage-taker who was seriously injured and rescued the woman he had taken hostage. "The suspect is under control," Cologne police said. "A female hostage has sustained light injuries and is being tended to." Police later said the suspect, who was badly wounded when police arrived, claimed to be a member of the Islamic State (IS). The man first hurled a Molotov cocktail inside a fast-food restaurant, injuring the 14-year-old girl, then took another woman hostage in a nearby pharmacy. He was holding a real or replica pistol when commandos stormed the site and was in possession of camping gas containers. Author: Louisa Wright ls,es/msh (dpa, AFP, AP)