Actor Robert De Niro and former US Vice President Joe Biden were sent suspicious packages on Thursday that were similar to those containing pipe bombs, according to US media reports. The news followed a series of suspected pipe bombs sent to high-profile Democrats and critics of US President Donald Trump. What we know so far:  US authorities have intercepted several suspicious parcels addressed to top politicians in Washington DC, New York, and Florida, as well as the CNN's Manhattan offices. Police in New York said all of the examined devices appeared to be crude pipe bombs. Many of the people who were mailed suspicious packages are high-profile Democrats. One alleged explosive device was addressed to 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. It was intercepted at a facility near her home outside New York, which she shares with her husband, former US president Bill Clinton. Police also intercepted a suspected pipe bomb addressed to former president Barack Obama at his private residence in Washington DC. No injuries have been reported in any of the cases; some items were investigated but found to be harmless. American cable network CNN was forced to evacuate from its Manhattan offices after a parcel was found inside the building. The package was addressed to former CIA director John Brennan, who occasionally contributes to the network. Police eventually managed to remove the object safely. New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo reported that another parcel was mailed to his office, but this was later disputed by the police. The Democratic official described the wave of parcels as "terrorism" and said he would not be surprised if more were found. Police in Florida are examining a suspicious package delivered to Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). However, some sources reported the package was addressed to former Attorney General Eric Holder, and had Schultz listed as sender. The wave of suspicious packages started with US-Hungarian billionaire George Soros, who received a device believed to be a pipe bomb two days before similar parcels were discovered elsewhere. Police found the package at his residence in Katonah, outside of New York City. Author: Darko Janjevic Why would De Niro be targeted? The 75-year-old actor is one of many in Hollywood who have spoken out against the US president. During the Tony Awards in June, De Niro cursed the president on national television. Trump responded at the time by calling De Niro a "very low IQ individual." Bombs targeting Trump critics: Investigators have been on the hunt for suspects after a series of pipe bombs were sent to prominent Democrats in recent days, including Trump's former political opponent Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton, as well as former US President Barack Obama and broadcaster CNN. None of the pipe bombs detonated, but some of them were filled with shards of glass. The spree of bombs began on Monday when one was sent to the home of George Soros, a prominent Democratic Party donor. Trump says media to blame for 'anger:' After condemning violence and urging for harmony on Wednesday, Trump took to Twitter on Thursday morning to rail against the media, accusing news outlets of stirring up "anger" in society with "purposely false and inaccurate reporting." Democrats and critics of Trump have blamed the president's rhetoric for stoking violence, pointing to his repeated remarks where he appears to be condoning violence, particularly against journalists. rs/rt (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.