Desperately needed foreign aid was due to arrive in Indonesia on Thursday, to help devastated communities as they face the aftermath of a 7.5-magnitude earthquake and tsunami. The country's National Disaster Management Agency said at least 1,424 people were dead and almost 2,550 injured after the earthquake struck and caused tsunami wavesto hit Indonesia's Sulawesi island. Agency spokesman Sutopo Nugroho said more than 70,000 people have been forced from their homes. The United Nations estimated that nearly 200,000 people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance, with more than 1.5 million people affected by the disaster. Read more: Indonesia quake: 'Tsunami warning system needs improvement' Sutopo said 11 aircraft from Singapore, South Korea, Japan and other countries would help transport aid and two Hercules C-130 cargo aircraft from Singapore were already on standby in the city of Balikpapan on the island of Borneo. Australia's first delivery of supplies was expected to reach central Sulawesi late Thursday, Royal Australian Air Force Captain Bryan Parker said. An Australian air force C-130 Hercules plane was loaded with what he described as family kits comprising clothing, bedding, food-making equipment, tarpaulins and tools for building shelters, and is expected to assist up to 10,000 people. Parker said Australian officials are ready to help the Indonesians transfer the aid further in the disaster zone, and that the number of plane loads of aid flown in from Darwin would depend on future Indonesian requests for help. The aid is part of a $3.6-million (3.13 million) relief commitment, including the help of more than 50 medical professionals that Australia made on Wednesday. Authorities fear the death toll could jump once access is gained into nearby remote areas cut off from aid due to impassable roads. So far, the death toll has mostly been made up of deaths in the small city of Palu, 1,500 km (930 miles) northeast of Jakarta. On Friday, September 28, a massive tidal wave unleashed by a 7.5-magnitude quake slammed into the Indonesian city of Palu located on Sulawesi island. The impact washed away Palu's 300-meter (328 yard) double-arched bridge, plunging cars into the water. This satellite image from October 1 shows how Palu is built on lowlands at the end of a narrow bay. Scientists say the shape of the bay amplified the size and power of the waves by forcing the water into a narrow and shallow channel. The earthquake's epicenter was also located close to shore, making the waves more powerful and leaving little time for warning. The wave hit Palu, a city with a population of 380,000, on Friday evening as Muslim worshippers were gathering for evening prayers in local mosques. Authorities said that many others were caught on the beach while preparing a festival which was set to start later in the day. With local hospitals crowded by hundreds of wounded, doctors were forced to treat the injured outside. Komang Adi Sujendra, director of a Palu hospital, urged assistance. "We need all the help we can get," he said. "We need field hospitals, medical workers, medicines and blankets." On October 2, the official death toll of the tsunami and quake reached over 1,200. Authorities expect that number to rise as more people remain trapped. On October 1, the national disaster agency told AP that over 150 bodies were buried in a mass grave, with the burial operations onoing. Indonesia is a majority-Muslim nation, and religious custom calls for burial soon after death. The tsunami carried sand, mud and debris inland. Roads were blocked and communications disrupted with other cities. Rescue efforts in remote areas around Palu are being hampered by the extent of damage to infrastructure. More heavy equipment is also needed. The heavy earthquake caused sand and silt saturated by water to take on liquid characteristics in a process known as liquefaction. The national rescue agency said that over 1,700 houses in the Palu area were wiped out by liquefied soil. Authorities managed to open the local airport a day after the tsunami, allowing the Indonesian mlitary to start delivering aid. The country's President Joko Widodo (r) visited the island and pledged to rebuild the city. The Associated Press reported that Widodo has authorized international help. The EU and 10 countries including the US, Australia and China have offered assistance. Indonesian media showed images of survivors entering the heavily damaged malls and supermarkets to loot supplies, despite the risk of building collapse. Some Palu residents started returning to their homes to salvage usable items. German news agency dpa reported on October 2 that police arrested 45 people in Palu for looting. The earthquake and tsunami knocked out power to the island and left many residents without access to clean water and medical supplies. Some of them descended on gas stations to pump out fuel by hand for their generators. Author: Darko Janjevic, Wesley Rahn law/ng (AP, dpa)