French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel clashed on Friday over the future of arms exports to Saudi Arabia. Merkel reiterated that Germany would not supply weapons to the key arms buyer until the facts behind the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Turkey were clear. "The case of journalist Khashoggi is, of course, something incredible, I told the Saudi king yesterday in our telephone conversation," Merkel said at a press conference with Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis. "We need to clarify the background of this horrible crime and until then, we will not supply weapons to Saudi Arabia." She also called on Riyadh to "do everything to solve the urgent humanitarian situation in Yemen, there are currently millions of hungry people, we are witnesses of one of the greatest humanitarian catastrophes." Read more: Support grows for EU-wide arms embargo on Saudi Arabia October 2: Prominent journalist Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he had gone to obtain an official document for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. He never emerged from the consulate, prompting Cengiz, who waited outside, to raise the alarm. October 3: Turkish and Saudi officials came up with conflicting reports on Khashoggi's whereabouts. Riyadh said the journalist had left the mission shortly after his work was done. But Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said the journalist was still in the consulate. October 6: Turkish officials said they believed the journalist was likely killed inside the Saudi consulate. The Washington Post, for which Khashoggi wrote, cited unnamed sources to report that Turkish investigators believe a 15-member team "came from Saudi Arabia" to kill the man. October 8: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on Saudi Arabia to prove that Khashoggi left its consulate in Istanbul. Turkey also sought permission to search the mission premises. US President Donald Trump voiced concern on the journalist's disappearance. October 9: Saudi Arabia agreed to let Turkish officials search its consulate. Security camera footage released by local media showed a van entering the consulate on October 2, before going to the nearby consul's residence, further fanning conspiracy theories. October 12: British billionaire Richard Branson halted talks over a $1 billion Saudi investment in his Virgin group's space ventures, citing Khashoggi's case. He also pulled out of an investment conference in Riyadh dubbed the "Davos in the Desert." His move was followed by Uber's Dara Khosrowshahi, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon and a host of other business leaders. October 15: Turkish investigators searched the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The search lasted more than eight hours and investigators removed samples from the building, including soil from the consulate garden and a metal door, one official said. October 19: Saudi Arabia said preliminary investigations showed that Khashoggi died after an "altercation" and "fistfight" at the consulate. Turkey's ruling party has responded, saying Ankara will "never allow a cover-up" of the killing of the Saudi journalist. German Chancellor slammed Riyadh's explanation as "insufficient." October 21: Saudi Arabia admitted the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a "rogue operation," calling it a "huge and grave mistake," but insisted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had not been aware of the murder. Riyadh said it had no idea where Khashoggi's body was. October 21: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany would put arms exports to Saudi Arabia on hold for the time being, given the unexplained circumstances of Khashoggi's death. Germany is the fourth largest exporter of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the United States, Britain and France. Author: Ashutosh Pandey Demagoguery Macron criticized Merkel's stance on weapons exports as "pure demagoguery." The sale of weapons "has nothing to do with Mr. Khashoggi. One shouldn't mix everything up," he said. "I greatly admire those who, even before they know anything, say 'We won't sell any more weapons!' They sometimes sell more than France thanks to their joint ventures." Read more: Saudi Arabia admits Jamal Khashoggi death was intentional Threats on jets German news weekly Der Spiegel reported on Friday that France had threatened to cancel a Franco-German fighter jet project unless it was allowed unlimited exports of the warplanes, even to countries involved in conflicts. The report cited a confidential cable sent to the German ambassador in Paris. Read more: Franco-German cooperation focuses on EU reforms, defense, enterprise and education Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36fyT Calls for unity Macron and Merkel were both in Prague for the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the former nation of Czechoslovakia. They used the opportunity to discuss the future of the European Union and call for cohesion. In an interview with local media, Macron spoke out against divisions between old and new EU member states in Eastern Europe. He said the Czech Republic and Slovakia — the two states that emerged after the demise of Czechoslovakia — as well as Poland and Hungary should aim for solidarity in regard to European integration. As well as a common eurozone budget, Macron wants closer fusion on issues such as tax and environmental protection. Merkel spoke similarly of cohesion: "I would support that we can't always wait for all 28 member states ... to participate." She also acknowledged that Nazi Germany temporarily destroyed Czechoslovakia during World War II. "After the terrible history ... today we can be very happy that we live together in friendship and good cooperation." She and Prime Minister Babis discussed the digitalization of industry, transport links and financial aid for African states linked to migration. Read more: Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia: Division and disintegration aw/jm (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.