Human rights watchdog Amnesty International (AI) said in a statement on Friday that Indian authorities raided its country office and froze its bank accounts on suspicions of violating rules on foreign funding. "Government authorities are increasingly treating human rights organizations like criminal enterprises," Aakar Patel, AI's Indian head, said. "Our operations in India have always conformed to our national regulations." A spokesman for India's Home Ministry confirmed that Amnesty India's accounts had been frozen pending further investigation on foreign funding regulations. "Action has been taken against other NGOs too who have violated these rules," the spokesman told media. The Enforcement Directorate, a government agency that deals with financial crimes, carried out a raid at AI's Bangalore office for 10 hours on Thursday, according to local media. In 2014, the Indian government put the operations of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) under surveillance after an official intelligence agency accused certain rights groups of campaigning against some government projects. PM Modi: critics say the government's crackdown on opposition and activists has intensified in the run-up to the 2019 polls Rights abuses in Kashmir It is not the first time that AI has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of targeting its operations. In August, 2016, AI temporarily shuttered offices across India over safety concerns. The group also faced criminal charges over allegations by Hindu nationalists that it gave a platform to Kashmir secessionists. Police also filed charges against Amnesty for "sedition" and other offenses after a BJP student wing objected to an event held in Bangalore to discuss human rights violations in the disputed region of Kashmir. AI regularly accuses Indian authorities of committing grave human rights violations in India-administered Kashmir. Read more: UN calls for Kashmir inquiry into alleged human rights abuses Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36YtS Crackdown on activists Since Modi came to power in 2014, India has cancelled the registration of some 15,000 NGOs under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, according to the Ministry of Home Affairs. Human rights groups say that right-wing extremism has been rising in India under the BJP rule. Read more: Opinion: Modi's India is a bad example for Kashmiris Modi's critics say the government's crackdown on opposition and rights activists has intensified in the run-up to the 2019 polls. In August, Indian police launched a nationwide crackdown, arresting a number of civil society activists, including communist poet Varavara Rao, human rights lawyer Vernon Gonsalves, writer and lawyer Arun Ferreira, journalist and activist Gautam Navlakha, and trade unionist Sudha Bharadwaj. Vigilante attacks on religious minorities have also increased in India in the past few years. Government officials deny any wrongdoing. Read more: Free speech 'under increasing threat' in South Asia Jantar Mantar gained recongnition internationally when social activist Anna Hazare staged his anti-corruption protests at the site in 2011. It was also the center of the 2012 protests against the rape of a medical student. But Jantar Mantar is not only a site for high-profile protests. In this picture you can see David Raj, a retired army official, who wants a countrywide ban on the sale of liquor. Last week, the country's National Green Tribunal ordered that the protest site be moved to the Ramlila Maidan, a ground in central Delhi, as demonstrations in Jantar Mantar cause noise pollution and inconvenience to people living in the area. This means that Om Shanti Sharma, a 40-year-old woman who wants to marry PM Narendra Modi, also has to move her plea to the new site. The 36-year-old Santosh Murat Singh has a unique problem, which he has brought to Jantar Mantar - he has been officially declared dead for 12 years and everything he ever owned has been sold off by his relatives. By carrying the "I am alive" sign at Jantar Mantar, Singh is trying to attract media attention to his problem. For more than a year, these two followers of India's founder and non-violence icon, Mahatma Gandhi, have been protesting against cow slaughter and demanding a ban on beef exports. Hanumathappa, a protester demanding his past wages after being sacked from a government office, has been living at the Jantar Mantar site for over a year. Followers of Baba Rampal are demanding the release of the self-styled guru. Rampal was arrested in 2014 after a showdown with the police and his devotees have been camping at Jantar Mantar for over two years. Author: Murali Krishnan (New Delhi) shs/rt   (dpa, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.