A referendum to change Romania's constitution to ban gay marriage was considered invalid on Sunday, after just 20.4 percent of eligible voters went to the polls. Thetwo-day referendum, which cost $40 million (€34.7 million), aimed to change the constitution to define marriage as strictly between a man and a woman from the current gender-neutral term "spouses." A minimum voter turnout of the 30 percent was required for the vote to be valid. Conservative civil society group Coalition for the Family gathered 3 million signatures to prompt the vote that hoped to prevent gay couples from winning the right to marry in the future. It was backed by the Orthodox Church and other religions, as well as all but one parliamentary parties. Read more: Why are police clashing with expats in Romania? While marriage statutes in Romania already ban same-sex marriage, the Coalition for Family argued that any ambiguity in the constitution needed to be eliminated. Vlad Viski of LGBT rights group MozaiQ said the failed referendum was a display of Romanians rejecting the Orthodox Church's participation in secular affairs and called for the government to legalize gay civil partnerships. "Romanians rejected being divided and hating each other, it is a victory for Romanian democracy and moreover, Romanians rejected the involvement of the Orthodox Church in the state's secular affairs," said Viski. "We believe politicians must now legalize civil partnerships for same sex couples," he added. The Netherlands was the first country in the world to permit same-sex marriages after the Dutch parliament voted for legalization in 2000. The mayor of Amsterdam, Job Cohen, wedded the first four same-sex couples at midnight on April 1, 2001 when the legislation came into effect. The new law also allowed same-sex couples to adopt children. The Netherlands' neighbor, Belgium, followed the Dutch lead and legalized same-sex marriage two years later. The law gave same-sex partners many of the rights of their heterosexual counterparts. But unlike the Dutch, the Belgians did not initially allow same-sex couples to adopt children. The Belgian parliament passed a bill granting them that right three years later. Argentina became the first Latin American country to legalize same-sex marriages when its Senate voted 33 to 27 in favor of it in July 2010. Argentina thereby became the tenth country in the world to permit gay and lesbian marriages. The South American country was not the only one to do so in 2010. Earlier in the year, Portugal and Iceland also passed same-sex marriage legislation. Denmark's parliament overwhelmingly voted in favor of legalization in June 2012. The small Scandinavian country had made headlines before when it was the first country in the world to recognize civil partnerships for gay and lesbian couples in 1989. Same-sex couples had also enjoyed the right to adopt children since 2009. New Zealand became the 15th country worldwide and the first Asia-Pacific country to allow gay and lesbian marriages in 2013. The first couples were married on August 19. Lynley Bendall (left) and Ally Wanik (right) were among them when they exchanged vows on board an Air New Zealand flight from Queenstown to Auckland. France legalized same-sex marriage the same year. Ireland made headlines in May 2015 when it became the first country in the world to legalize same-sex marriage through a referendum. Thousands of people celebrated in the streets of Dublin as the results came in showing almost two-thirds of voters opting for the measure. The White House was alight in the colors of the rainbow flag on June 26, 2015. Earlier, the US Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 that the constitution guaranteed marriage equality, a verdict that paved the way for same-sex couples to be married across the country. The decision came 12 years after the Supreme Court ruled that laws criminalizing gay sex were unconstitutional. Germany became the fifteenth European country to legalize gay and lesbian marriages in June 30, 2017. The bill passed by 393 to 226 in the Bundestag, with four abstentions. German Chancellor Angela Merkel voted against the bill, but paved the way for its passage when she said her party would be allowed to vote freely on the measure only days before the vote took place. Following a postal survey which showed the majority of Australians were in favor of same-sex marriage, the country's parliament passed a law to legalize it in December 2017. As couples in Australia have to give authorities one month's notice of their nuptials, many of the first weddings took place just after midnight on January 9, 2018 - including that of Craig Burns and Luke Sullivan, pictured. Author: Alexander Pearson 'Yes' voters blame misinformation The Coalition for the Family blamed what it called "a massive disinformation campaign" by the media, politicians and local governments for the low voter turnout. It claimed there was "a general boycott by all political parties" that was "primarily directed against the Christians of Romania." The vote had been seen as a popularity test for the ruling Social Democrat Party (PSD) that supported the change and whose attempts to weaken anti-corruption legislation have drawn criticism from the European Union. Read more: Eastern Europe: Democratic principles on the edge Senior PSD member Codrin Stefanescu also accused opposition parties and centrist President Klaus Iohannis of misinforming Romanians ahead of the vote. PSD leader Liviu Dragnea, whose appeal against a criminal conviction in an abuse of office case starts on Monday, told reporters after voting "Yes" to the change on Saturday that Romanians had to decide the kind of country they wanted. "We all know that for years we've been told others know what is best for us better than we do. I believe it is time we decide what kind of society and country we want to have and how we want to live in our country," Dragnea said. law/aw (AP, Reuters)