The anonymous buyer of a Banksy painting that was partially shredded at a Sotheby's auction last week has agreed to proceed with her payment of 1.04 million pounds ($1.4 million, €1.2 million) despite damage to the artwork. The moment the hammer came down for Banksy's "Girl With Balloon" painting at the London auction house last week the bottom half of the artwork was sucked into a shredder concealed in the frame, to the astonishment of those in the saleroom. The auctioneers on Thursday quoted the winning bidder as saying she was initially shocked when the work was shredded but later realized she would end up with her own piece of art history. The buyer has only been identified as a female European collector and long-standing client of Sotheby's. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2w8BX Alex Branczik, head of contemporary art for Europe at Sotheby's, said the shredded painting was "the first artwork in history to have been created live during an auction." The auction house also said the artwork had been retitled "Love is in the Bin" and was authenticated by Banksy's agency. Shredded artwork 'doubles' in value: experts In the wake of Banksy's prank, several experts suggested that the shredded artwork could now be worth more than double its original price. "Banksy might think that by destroying his art he's undermining capitalists who buy it, but he's wrong," said Mikael Faujour of the specialist French art magazine Artension. "The leftovers from this destruction will acquire a new prestige and additional monetary worth." Read more: 'The Art of Banksy': a commercial exhibition of the anti-establishment artist in Berlin Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2YdA5 Thierry Ehrmann, who heads Artprice, a firm closely monitoring art market prices, claimed it could now be worth more than €2 million. "Banksy reminds people that, even in a prominent auction, all his art is fleeting," he said. Some experts have even questioned whether Sotheby's conspired with the artist to pull off the prank. Auctions houses usually study both the painting and the frame with careful attention prior to sale, they say. From spray painter to political artist Banksy, who has never disclosed his full identity, has grown from a small-time graffiti artist in the English city of Bristol to become one the world's best-known artists. His works often have ironic political themes. In 2005, he painted a young girl frisking a soldier on the Palestinian side of Israel's barrier to the West Bank. At a Disneyland amusement park the following year he installed life-size figure of a Guantanamo Bay detainee. Read more: Rockefeller art auction breaks records While the Israeli barrier to the West Bank is full of different graffiti, none are as well known as Banksy's 2005 work The mysterious artist posted a video of the shredding on his Instagram account, prompting speculation that he may have personally attended the auction. The video was accompanied by a Pablo Picasso quote — "the urge to destroy is also a creative urge." "Balloon Girl," which depicts a small child reach towards a heart-shaped balloon, was originally stenciled on a wall in east London. Banksy's stencil piece "Paparazzi Rat" is one of his most iconic works. Starting April 15, 2016, collector Dirk Kronsbein is showing 45 works from his Banksy collection, many of them originals, in his Munich gallery. Kronsbein has said he holds Banksy in high regard due to his social activism. Maria feeds Baby Jesus with a bottle that's adorned with a skull. Bomber jets are flying below them in this macabre picture. Dirk Kronsbein owns the original "Toxic Maria." Originals are hard to come by on the art market and can cost around 625,000 euros ($713,000). Banksy is not only critical of society, he also has a sense of humor. Here, he's depicted the Queen as a chimpanzee in royal regalia. Banksy donates the proceeds from his works to charity. He was once able to present a six-figure check to a youth sports club after the sale of one painting. Dirk Kronsbein also plans to support sport programs for children with his exhibition. Dirk Kronsbein only sells a Banksy work if he owns more than one copy of it - as in the case of "Choose Your Weapon." It's an homage to artist Keith Haring with his dog. Kronsbein also sells Banksy paraphernalia and donates the proceeds to boxing programs for troubled youth. Banksy often deals with armed violence and armament in his work. In "Heavy Weapon," he shows an elephant with a missile on its back. While graffiti in urban spaces is often illegal, on paper they're collector items. Even copies can cost as much as 100,000 euros. Not all of Banksy's works are political. He's also created poetic stencil paintings like "Girl Nola," whose umbrella is spilling red and yellow rain. Who is Banksy? He remains an enigma and fiercely guards the secret of his identity. All efforts to find out who he really is have been in vain. Owning a Banksy is a status symbol enjoyed by many celebrities. Actors Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, as well as model Kate Moss, all possess works by the mysterious street artist. Moss not only collects Banksy's works, but also became one: She had herself portrayed by him in the Pop Art style of Andy Warhol's iconic Marilyn Monroe painting. Coldplay singer Chris Martin purchased the original painting "Girl with Balloon" at an auction. Not only celebrities, but also other artists like Damien Hirst collect works by Banksy. Hirst was among the first to recognize the street artist's talent. Author: Gaby Reucher / kbm Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dm/rc (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)