Pope Francis has defrocked two Chilean bishops for the alleged sexual abuse of minors, the Vatican said in a statement on Saturday. The decision to expel former archbishop Francisco Jose Cox Huneeus and former bishop Marco Antonio Ordenes Fernandez was made public following a meeting between the head of the Catholic Church and Chilean President Sebastian Pinera at the Vatican. The defrocking, officially called "reduced to the lay state," means the two men are no longer priests. It is the harshest punishment the Church can inflict on a member of the clergy. No Church trial for the men The statement added that the pair cannot appeal the decision, and that the evidence against them was so overwhelming that a canonical trial was unnecessary. The Vatican also said the pope's private meeting with Pinera concentrated on "the painful scourge of abuse of minors, reiterating the effort of all in collaboration to combat and prevent the perpetration of such crimes and their concealment." Read more: Pope adviser urges rethink on Catholic celibacy Pope Francis began his papal visit to Ireland by acknowledging the "repugnant" sexual abuse of children by clergy and admitted the Catholic Church failed to address the scandal. He later silently prayed in front of a candle commemorating the victims of abuse in St. Mary's Pro Cathedral in Dublin. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, the country's first openly gay leader, urged Francis to follow through on his promises to provide justice for church abuse victims. "We must now ensure that from words flow actions," Varadkar told Francis in a strongly-worded speech at a reception for the pope. Crowds of people lined the streets in Dublin along the popemobile route for a chance to see Francis on Saturday. Despite the cheering supporters, Francis' reception was much more subdued compared to the massive crowds that greeted Pope John Paul II during his papal visit in 1979. Not all the banners along Francis' route through Dublin were ones of support. As Francis waved to the crowds, one protester held up a sign reading: "Pope head of the biggest paedophile ring in the history of mankind." Protesters decorated Dublin's Ha'penny Bridge with rainbow flags and purple umbrellas to support LGBT inclusion in the church and women's ordination. The blue ribbons tied on the bridge were to remember the church abuse victims. Rounding out his two-day papal visit, Francis led a Mass in Dublin's Phoenix Park where he issued a sweeping apology for the abuse carried out by church leaders. Tens of thousands of people braved the windy and rainy weather to attend the Mass, although turnout was lower than expected. Earlier in the day, he told a crowd in the city of Knock: "I beg forgiveness for these sins." Elsewhere in Dublin, thousands of people joined the Stand4Truth solidarity march for abuse survivors that took place at the same time as Francis' Mass in Phoenix Park. Survivors, their families and supporters walked in silence to the last of Ireland's former Magdalene laundries where unwed mothers were forced to work and separated from their babies. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with AP, dpa, Reuters) Huneeus, who was archbishop emeritus of the city of La Serena, and Fernández, archbishop emeritus of Iquique, are among 167 Chilean bishops, priests and lay members of the church who are accused of sexual crimes committed since 1960. Saturday's announcement follows a similar defrocking last month of Father Fernando Karadima, an 88-year-old Chilean priest who sexually abused teenage boys over a period of many years. New approach by Vatican The public statement suggests the Church is being more transparent in responding to the scandal, after having been previously accused of covering up the sexual abuse of minors by its clergy in several countries, including Chile, the US and Germany. Read more:US cardinal resigns amid accusations of church sex abuse cover-up Francis has repeatedly apologized over the scandal, admitting the church failed "to listen and react" to the allegations, while vowing to "restore justice." In May, the Pope accepted the resignation of five other Chilean bishops amid accusations of abuse and related cover-ups. On March 13, 2013, Jorge Mario Bergoglio greeted the crowd in St. Peter's Square in the heart of Rome with a simple "good evening!" moments after the Conclave had selected him as the new pope. He thus began his term with a down-to-earth tone that has marked his stewardship of the Catholic Church ever since. The new pontiff immediately tackled topics that the Catholic Church had been discussing before his election. He set up a nine-person cardinal conference to reform the church's organization and direction. The guiding principle: the Roman Catholic Church is not an end in itself. Instead, it should seek to spread the teachings of the Bible and bring the Vatican and its followers closer together. The deaths of migrants crossing from Africa to Europe are "a thorn in the heart," said Pope Francis on his first bridge building trip to Lampedusa. At the time of his visit in the summer of 2013, thousands of migrants were on the Italian island hoping to receive legal permits to continue their journey onto the European mainland. It aligned perfectly with his own message of the "poor church:" the picture of Pope Francis with the 30-year-old Renault 4 that he had received as a gift from a pastor in Verona. Francis reportedly wanted to drive the car, but was not allowed to due to security concerns. The symbol of modesty has endured. Francis' worldly style quickly made him an icon for progressive Catholics and other Christians. Even non-Christians applauded the pope and rubbed their eyes in amazement at the contrast between Francis and his conservative and academic predecessor, Pope Benedict. After 10 months in office, Francis became the first pope to make the cover of "Rolling Stone" magazine. Francis takes his task as bridge builder very seriously. He has acted as a mediator between warring parties in civil conflicts in central Africa and Colombia and also helped bring an end to frozen relations between the US and Cuba. With an eye toward the Mexican-US border, he has also urged US President Donald Trump to build bridges rather than walls. Francis has also tried to build bridges between confessions and religions. He prayed at the wailing wall in Jerusalem and met the Grand Mufti Mohammad Hussein. In Egypt, he visited the head of the Coptic Church, Tawadros II, and Grand Imam Ahmed al-Tayeb. In Myanmar, he spoke to Buddhist monks and in Havanna, he met with the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kyrill I (pictured). Francis spontaneously wed a couple on an airplane during a trip to Chile in January 2018. The two crew members were traveling with the pope on a flight from the capital Santiago to the northern city of Iquique. They had apparently told Francis of their plans to marry. Francis' reform course has been too radical for some clerics. This poster in Rome accused Francis of showing no mercy within the church. He reportedly also has little time for dissent within the Vatican. Some church members think his course is too secular, his humility too bold, its display too media-orientated. The essence of religiosity – spirituality – some fear, could get lost in it all. But the major challenge now faced by Francis is the problem of sexual abuse, including of minors, by church representatives. In January, the pontiff was heavily criticized for supporting Chilean Bishop Juan Barros (pictured right), accused of an abuse cover-up. On a recent trip to Ireland, the pope begged for forgiveness amid an abuse scandal there. But critics say much more is needed. Author: Jan D. Walter, Alexander Pearson mm/rc (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.