Hurricane Michael left the US state of Florida battered and bruised on Thursday, as search-and-rescue teams set to work. The storm was the most powerful hurricane to hit the continental US in more than 50 years. "So many lives have been changed forever," state Governor Rick Scott said. "So many families have lost everything. ... This hurricane was an absolute monster." So far, at least six deaths have been attributed to the storm, four of which in Florida. However, vast swaths of property still remained leveled as rescue operations continued through the day and into the night. Read more: Climate change and extreme weather: Science is proving the link More than 375,000 people along the Gulf Coast were given mandatory evacuation orders, but many people defied the calls. Some areas remain out of reach to authorities. The storm blew ashore early Wednesday afternoon near Florida's Mexico Beach as a Category 4 hurricane. It was just short of being categorized as level 5. With winds surging to 155 mph (250 kph), Michael wreaked havoc on the Florida Panhandle, leaving a devastating trail of destruction along the Gulf coast before it was downgraded to a tropical storm in the evening as it moved further inland. Numerous buildings in Panama City were demolished, partially collapsed or without roofs amid deserted streets littered with debris, twisted, fallen tree trunks and dangling wires. About 3,500 Florida National Guard troops were deployed to assist with evacuations and storm recovery, along with more than 1,000 search-and-rescue personnel, Florida Governor Rick Scott said. One person has died so far. Some 375,000 people were ordered to evacuate their homes, but many residents found themselves trapped after they were caught unawares when the storm doubled in strength as it approached land. "It really started as a tropical storm, and then it went to Category 1, then it was Category 2 and before you know it, it was Category 4," said US Air Force General Terrence O'Shaughnessy. More than 400,000 people in Florida, Georgia and Alabama were without power. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) chief Brock Long said many buildings were not built to withstand a storm above the strength of a Category 3 hurricane. Long said Michael was one of the most intense hurricanes to hit the area since 1851. As Michael plows northward up the Atlantic seaboard, the governors of North and South Carolina urged residents to brace for more heavy rain and storm-force winds. Both states are still recovering from major flooding following Hurricane Florence less than a month ago. Authorities said the full extent of devastation would not be known until after daybreak in Florida on Thursday. In the meantime, curfews were imposed across much of the region. Last year saw a slew of catastrophic storms batter the western Atlantic, including Irma, Maria and Harvey, which caused at least $125 billion (€108.2 billion) in damage when it flooded the Houston metropolitan area. Author: Louisa Wright Brock Long, head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said Mexico Beach was "ground zero" for damage. The town of 1,200 people was largely leveled, as it was hit by 155 miles an hour (250 kilometers an hour) winds and a storm surge of 9 feet (2.7 meters) from the category 4 hurricane. Long said there could still be people trapped in the area, known for its small coastal towns and wildlife reserves. The full extent of the storm would only slowly become clear once emergency services access some of the hardest-to-reach areas. Read more:  Will extreme weather become even deadlier? The coastal township of Mexico Beach was hardest hit by the storm More than 900,000 homes and businesses in Florida, Alabama, Georgia and the Carolinas have been left without power. Several thousands National Guard troops, law enforcement officers and medical teams have been deployed in the recovery effort. The storm has weakened but continues to travel over the Carolinas to the Atlantic Ocean, bringing with it heavy rains. The Miami-based National Hurricane Center (NHC) said Michael was losing its tropical characteristics and its wind speeds had reduced to 50 mph. However, the NHC warned that damaging winds and rainfall were still causing flash flooding across parts of North Carolina and southern Virginia. dm, aw/ng (AP, Reuters, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36KY2