About two million migratory birds from some 200 species rest along Germany's North Sea coast and on the East Frisian Islands in the fall before flying to their southern winter quarters. To mark this fascinating natural phenomenon, the Wadden Sea National Park launched the 10th annual Migratory Bird Days festival on Saturday. Between October 13-21, more than 300 events will be held on the mainland and islands of the UNESCO World Heritage listed park, all centered around migratory birds. Activities range from boat tours and guided birding hikes, to concerts and workshops. The national park aims to highlight to the thousands of expected visitors the importance of protecting migratory bird ecosystems. Meet the bar-tailed godwit: Breeding primarily on Arctic coasts, and the Scandinavian and Siberian tundra, this wading species spends the winter in Australia and New Zealand. In 2007, a tagged bird was recorded as having flown 11,600 kilometers (7200 miles), from Western Alaska to New Zealand, in a single nine-day stretch. That probably makes it the record-holder for non-stop flight. Named for the bright red plumage under its beak, the ruby-throated hummingbird can grow up to 9 centimeters (3.5 inches) and weigh as little as 3 grams. But don't let the bird's small stature fool you, it still gets around. During migration, some specimens fly 900 miles non-stop across the Gulf of Mexico to their breeding grounds in the Eastern United States. Belonging to the stork species, the greater adjutant owes its name to its gait — which is said to resemble that of a military officer. But the adjutant doesn't command much land anymore. It's listed as endangered, and is only found in two breeding colonies in India and Cambodia. Outside of the breeding season, it visits neighboring countries across Southeast Asia. An invasion of sooty shearwater birds in California in 1961 was the inspiration for Hitchcock's famous thriller "The Birds," which came out two years later. In real life, the birds are more awe-inspiring than scary. Crossing the Pacific and Atlantic, up coasts in spring and down in autumn, they clock up to 14,000-kilometer journeys. Oh, and they can also dive down to more than 60 meters. Dunlins are small waders, and breed in Arctic regions. While those from Northern Europe and Asia fly as far as Africa for the winter break, their Alaskan and Canadian counterparts prefer the much closer North American coasts. Their characteristic mechanical way of picking at food has earned them their nickname. Arctic terns have developed the ultimate strategy to evade winter: They breed in the Arctic during the northern summer, then travel to the shores of Antarctica, racking up 80,000 kilometers of travel or more per year in the process. That means they see two summers. But winters? Zero. Every year. Critically endangered, the northern bald ibis is now only found in southern Morocco. It used to migrate across Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. Revered by the ancient Egyptians and said to have been the first bird to be released from Noah's Ark, Turkish pilgrims also looked to them for guidance on their way to Mecca. Spiritual appreciation hasn't helped stem its decline. The northern wheatear has nothing to do with wheat or ears but it does make one of the longest migrations of any small bird. It passes over oceans, snow and desert during its spring journey from Sub-Saharan Africa to the Northern Hemisphere. There, the birds occupy an area stretching from Central Asia to Europe and Alaska. Trackers have shown they can travel 290 kilometers a day on average. The common crane is a common appearance in the north of Europe and Asia, where it breeds typically in moors and wetlands. For its winter vacation, it commonly migrates to North and East Africa, as well as to Israel and parts of Iran. Anything but boring, the ruddy turnstone's plumage features a harlequin-like pattern during summer when it breeds in the Arctic Tundra of Europe, Asia and North America. As temperatures drop, the small wader changes into its brown winter coat and migrates south on coastlines around the world. These ducks had made it across the Mediterranean from North Africa only to be shot on arrival at this beach in Albania. Every year, hunters kill many millions of migratory birds across the Mediterranean — for food or money, or, most controversially, sport. Author: Ranty Islam, Jennifer Collins The birds use the richness of the Wadden Sea to develop energy reserves to continue their journey from northern summer grounds to southern winter areas as far as Africa. In addition to migratory birds, a number of bird species are permanent residents of the park or overwinter there. There are also separate bird-related activities across northern Germany in the fall and winter. There are 12 inhabited islands in the North Sea. The German states of Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein share the North Sea coast and its island world. Baltrum (pictured), with only 6.5 square kilometers (4.6 square miles), is the smallest, and Sylt is the biggest island, with 99 square kilometers. They might be very different but they do have one thing in common: endless fine sandy beaches. The North Sea island beaches promise holiday fun - if only there wasn't that often cool wind blowing. Shivering holiday makers can find shelter in the traditional wicker beach chairs. For a small rental you can cuddle down in these chairs and while away the time watching sea gulls. The wind however determines the direction in which you look - as the chairs are always positioned away from the wind. Located between the islands and the mainland is the Wadden Sea - which becomes visible every six hours or so when the sea recedes. Guided Wadden Sea hikes let you discover this unique habitat and its adaptable inhabitants both from the animal and the plant world. The unique landscape was listed a UNESCO Natural World Heritage Site in 2009. The North Sea's most popular inhabitants, the seals, make their home on the sandbanks between the islands. Excursion boats with tourists keep a good distance from the protected animals. Orphaned seal babies are taken to rearing stations to help build up their strength again. When the animals are fit enough, they are returned to the sea. Every year their return to nature is a bit of a spectacle. Helgoland is the only high sea island. The boat ride to get there is already a bit of an adventure. Some 1,500 people live on these red cliffs in the North Sea. During the summer they are joined by some 10,000 visitors every day. The three-kilometer cliff walk offers some fabulous views. It also leads past one of Helgoland's landmarks - a free standing rock needle called "Lange Anna." There are 10 Halligen islands in the North Sea. These are small islands without protective dikes, so they are virtually completely flooded during storm tides. That's why the people here live on man-made mounds known as Warften. It is an isolated existence following the rhythm of the tides. Holiday makers who wish to feel close to nature and like nature's elements will love it here. They are the landmarks of the North Sea coast. In striking red-and-white candy-stripe design, their light helps to guide the ships. Incidentally each lighthouse has its own shape and color design. Most of them are open to the public. The strenuous climb up is worth it too, as you won't find a better viewing point. In the Westerheversand Lighthouse you can even get married at airy heights. Those wanting a touch of city life are better off on the mainland. The familiar maritime flair makes Husum one of the most attractive towns on the North Sea coast. The town center, with its historical harbor lined with restaurants, cafés and museums, is a popular promenade. It is also a good starting point for any excursions to the North Sea islands and the Halligen Islands. It is the most beautiful beach on the North Sea coast: 12 kilometers long and two kilometers across. Its stilt houses are unique. Some of these Sankt Peter Ording landmarks are over 100 years old. They were once built as changing rooms and beach cafes for holiday makers. To this day, the 15 stilt houses with their restaurants, life guards and beach chair hire are there to serve the guests. Bremerhaven is the only city on the North Sea. The harbor city reflects the long connection between the people and the sea. This can been seen in the historical museum ships in the historical harbor and the German Shipping Museum as well as the German Emigration Center, which is dedicated to the moving family stories of German migrants in the 19th century. Author: Anne Termèche In October, tens of thousands of cranes rest along the Baltic Sea and in parts of Lower Saxony. Read more: Wandering among geese in Germany's Lower Rhine East of the Wadden Sea, up to 80,000 barnacle geese, or about 20 percent of the world population, overwinters near the mouth of the Elbe River each year. The protected area of Bislicher Island in Germany's Lower Rhine region is home to nearly 200,000 geese that overwinter there. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3640t