--- Refresh page (F5) for live updates --- 25' After a defensive start, Monaco are now showing their quality going forward. The latest attack sees Falcao stray just offside. 22' Sancho spots Diallo's overlapping run down the left and plays in the French defender, whose cross is cleared for a corner. From the corner, Reus attempts an audacious bicycle kick but it doesn't come off. 19' Tielemans with another long-range shot and this one is much more dangerous, forcing a good save from Bürki, diving high to his left. 16' Tielemans fires a long-range effort straight at Bürki. 15' Monaco come forward again with Henrichs. This time, his cross is directed wide of the goal by Sylla. 14' Dortmund with the lion's share of the possession in the opening stages. Monaco are sitting deep in a 4-4-2 formation without the ball and allowing the hosts to dictate the pace. 9' Benjamin Henrichs drives at the Dortmund defense down the Monaco left but the former Bayer Leverkusen man's cross is cleared. 8' Sancho gets involved for the first time but his control lets him down in the Monaco box. 4' A positive start from Dortmund. Witsel's cross finds Alcacer at the back post but there's nobody in the center as the Spaniard cushions it back across. Soon after, Wolf fires over from distance. +++ KICK-OFF +++ 1' We're underway at the Westfalenstadion! Dortmund in yellow shirts and black shorts, Monaco in all white. Borussia Dortmund team news: Paco Alcacer makes his first start for the Black and Yellows while Christian Pulisic misses out with a calf injury. Jadon Sancho also starts. BVB XI: Bürki - Piszczek, Akanji, Zagadou, Diallo - Witsel, Delaney - Wolf, Reus, Sancho - Alcacer 'The club could have collapsed' It was one of the most shocking moments in Borussia Dortmund's 109-year history. As the BVB team bus made its way from the team hotel to the Westfalenstadion for the 2016/17 Champions League last-16 first leg against Monaco, it was struck by a roadside explosion which send deadly shards of metal flying through the vehicle. Fortunately, a broken arm for defender Marc Bartra was the only physical injury - but the mental impact was huge. Against the will of former coach Thomas Tuchel and senior members of the squad, Dortmund agreed to UEFA's request to play the fixture just 24 hours later. A pyschologically stricken BVB lost 3-2 before losing the second leg 3-1, and the relationship between Tuchel and the club was damaged beyond repair. "The club could have collapsed completely," CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke told Sportbild this week ahead of the latest visit of Monaco. "But we ultimately showed that we can master extraordinary situations." +++ Guten Abend! Welcome to DW's live coverage of Borussia Dortmund vs. Monaco on matchday two of the 2017/18 Champions League +++