Meghan Markle began her first overseas multicountry royal tour as she and Prince Harry landed in Sydney, Australia on Monday. The newlyweds will embark on a more than two-week tour of the Pacific that also includes Fiji, Tonga and New Zealand, attending some 76 official events during the trip. Shortly after their arrival in Australia, Kensington Palace announced that the couple are expecting their first child in the spring of 2019. "Their royal highnesses have appreciated all of the support they have received from people around the world since their wedding in May and are delighted to be able to share this happy news with the public," the palace said in a statement. The baby will be seventh in line to the British throne. Prince William and Kate introduced their third child to the world seven hours after his birth on April 23. While the boy was born on St George's Day, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had to find another name for the fifth-in-line to the throne, as George is the name given to his older brother. They picked Louis Arthur Charles, and he will be known as Prince Louis. Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to Prince William's first child on July 22, 2013. Officially called George Alexander Louis, Prince George became a big brother on May 2, 2015. The boy is third in line to succeed his great-grandmother, after his grandfather Charles and his father. George's little sister, Princess Charlotte Elizabeth Diana, was born on May 2, 2015. Her name, which honors both her grandmother and great-grandmother, was announced two days later. This photo shows her at the age of one in 2016. Following changes in the rules of succession privileging male heirs, Princess Charlotte remains fourth in line to the throne, even though she now has a baby brother. These happy chubby cheeks belong to none other than Queen Elizabeth II. She is in the arms of her mother Elizabeth, the Duchess of York. Her father was the future King George VI. Elizabeth II's birth was a difficult one: The heiress to the throne was finally delivered via C-section on April 21, 1926. She grew up with her younger sister Margaret (1930-2002). Today, she is 92 years old. This young boy was born on June 10, 1921. At the time, Philip, Duke of Edinburgh didn't realize that about 25 years later he would be asking the hand of a future queen in marriage: Elizabeth II. Philip's father had already arranged a meeting with the then 13-year-old heiress to the throne in 1939. At the time, Philip was still a student at the Royal Naval College. Today he is 96 years old. Charles Philip Arthur George, better known as Prince Charles, was born on November 14, 1948. When he was four years old, his mother, Elizabeth II, ascended the throne. As the eldest child, Charles is the royal heir and Duke of Cornwall. This baby would later become royal. Lady Di was born on July 1, 1961. In 1981, she married Prince Charles under the eyes of some 750 million television viewers worldwide. The failure of their marriage would be just as publicized. Diana's death in a car accident on the night of August 31, 1997 would be followed by another media frenzy. Her fans still mourn her today. Prince William Arthur Philip Louis Mountbatten-Windsor was born on June 21, 1982 in London. After their parents separated in 1992, William and his brother Harry lived alternately with Princess Diana in London's Kensington Palace or with their father and grandmother Elizabeth II at the Royal Court. Lady Di would certainly have been proud of her now big kids having their own children. His real name is Prince Henry Charles Albert David Mountbatten-Windsor. But the world prefers to simply call him Prince Harry. The sandy-haired baby was born on September 15, 1984. Harry's excessive partying as a teenager would later make the headlines. He managed to get rid of his bad-boy image and has married US actress Meghan Markle. They are expecting a baby in the spring of 2019. Author: Ananda Bräunig (eg) Koalas and games In Australia, Meghan and Harry will be welcomed on Tuesday by Governor-General Peter Cosgrove and his wife, Lynne. A more light-hearted visit will follow, when the Duke and Duchess of Sussex visit the Taronga Zoo's koalas. Read more: Dressing for the queen: A royal wedding dress code Their itinerary in Sydney also includes sailing in the harbor and visiting the famous Bondi Beach. The couple is set to attend the Invictus Games and also hold a meeting with the new Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison. The Invictus Games are an international Paralympics-style sport event for military personnel wounded in action, which was founded by Prince Harry. Additionally, the royal couple will visit the drought-stricken outback town of Dubbo and meet indigenous leaders on Fraser Island, the world's largest sand island, in the northeastern state of Queensland. A focus on youth development In a statement about the visit, Kensington Palace said that the couple looked forward to "building an enduring relationship with the people of the region" and that they had asked to meet as many locals from each country as possible. "Their Royal Highnesses' program will focus on youth leadership, and projects being undertaken by young people to address the social, economic, and environmental challenges of the region," the statement read, highlighting Prince Harry's new role as Commonwealth Youth Ambassador. Read more: The Commonwealth: Still relevant for Africa today? All countries in the royal couple's itinerary are members of the British Commonwealth and were former British colonies. Queen Elizabeth II is currently the head of state of Australia, but her role is largely ceremonial. Meghan and Harry's trip will conclude in New Zealand and will coincide with the commemoration of the 125th anniversary of women's suffrage there. The island nation was the first country to give women the right to vote. Meghan is expected to speak at the suffrage anniversary celebration in Wellington on October 28. jcg/aw (AP, Reuters) Great Britain's Prince Harry wed American actor Meghan Markle on May 19, 2018. The couple tied the knot in a formal ceremony at Windsor Castle outside of London that was broadcast around the world. Every detail of the wedding was carefully considered, including the bouquet the bride carried. It consisted of forget-me-nots which had been hand-plucked by Harry in honor of his mother, Princess Diana. Britain's Prince Harry announced his engagement to the US actor Meghan Markle in November. The wedding, announced for May 19, 2018, has been the focus of a media frenzy in the six months since its announcement. In addition to the royal family, 600 A-list guests from both sides of the Atlantic were expected at Windsor Castle for the ceremony. The couple exchanged vows inside St. George's Chapel in a ceremony that diverged slightly from traditional royal nuptials. Meghan Markle was briefly accompanied up the aisle by Harry's father, Prince Charles. The vows did not include the word "obey." And the song to which the newlyweds exited the church was a gospel choir singing a refrain of "Amen." Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will be the 16th royal couple to tie the knot inside Windsor Castle. The tradition began in 1863 with the wedding between the Prince of Wales and Princess Alexandra of Denmark. The second marriage of Harry's father, Prince Charles, to Camilla Parker Bowles, likewise took place in the castle, at Windsor Guildhall, and was followed by a service at St. George's Chapel. Guests were asked to arrive at the chapel more than an hour early. St. George's Chapel can hold up to 800 people, more than enough room to accommodate the couple's guest list, which included no heads of states or politicians in order to avoid controversy. After the ceremony, just 200 of the guests will be on hand at a reception at the nearby Frogmore House. The bridegroom arrived at St. George's Chapel with his brother, Prince William. Both wore traditional military uniforms and made the short trek to the chapel on foot while waving to their adoring public. Harry made the unusual choice to retain a beard, something which may have gone against the dress code in the past. The only member of Meghan Markle's family to have attended the wedding was her mother, Doria Ragland. After overnighting with her only daughter, Doria accompanied Meghan on the drive to the church. The role was a first in a royal wedding, but Meghan sought to include her "rock and best friend" in her big day. In lieu of bridesmaids, Meghan selected ten page boys and flower girls to accompany her down the aisle. Among those children who followed the bride were Prince William's eldest two children: Prince George and Princess Charlotte, who is seen above arriving at the ceremony. Greeted at the chapel by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Meghan Markle wore a dress designed by Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy. Her veil stretched for five meters (16.4 feet) behind her and contained 53 hand-stitched flowers, representing the 53 nations of the Commonwealth. She was followed into the church by ten pageboys and flower girls, including Prince George and Princess Charlotte. After Meghan's father suffered a heart attack earlier in the week, the decision was made upon the bride's suggestion that the groom's father, Prince Charles, accompany her through the Quire to Harry's side. She had no bridesmaids or matron of honor, as she said that choosing one of her many friends for the role would have been too difficult. The happy couple were all smiles when they met the reverend at the altar to exchange vows. The pair agreed to love, honor, comfort and remain faithful to each other, forsaking all others in the hour-long ceremony which included not only recitations from the Bible but also hymns and gospel songs as well as the UK National Anthem. Ring bearer for the ceremony was Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry's best man. The couple chose Cleave and Company to make their wedding rings. The Queen had gifted Meghan a piece of Welsh gold from which her ring was fashioned; Prince Harry's was a textured platinum band. Ahead of the wedding, Markle was baptized into the Church of England. For the ceremony, a number of preachers from the Anglican church provided short sermons, including the Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, primate of the Episcopal Church, whose congregation is based in Chicago. The reverend quoted Martin Luther King Jr. and told the couple, "There's power in love, don't underestimate it." After the ceremony, the couple appeared before the public for the first time in a horse-drawn carriage. They were led through the streets by members of the Household Cavalry, guardians of the monarch, atop horses. Prince Harry was a part of the cavalry and was with some of the soldiers during his duties in Afghanistan. Author: Courtney Tenz Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.