Joachim Ronneberg, hailed as a war hero for carrying out a major attack against the Nazis in his native Norway, died Sunday at the age of 99. As a young soldier in 1943, he was chosen to head Operation Gunnerside, which destroyed part of the Norsk Hydro plant and put a stop to Germany's nuclear weapons program. "Ronneberg is probably the last of the best known resistance fighters to pass away," Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg told the NTB news agency. "He is one of our great heroes." Read more: Stolen Nazi concentration camp gate found in Norway Operation Gunnerside aimed to sabotage the Nazis' World War II nuclear energy program at the Norsk Hydro plant Secret mission Born in 1919 in the town of Aalesund, Ronneberg fled Norway after German forces invaded in 1940, and ended up training with the Norwegian resistance in Britain. He returned to his occupied homeland in February 1943 to lead a six-man team in a major assault on the Norsk Hydro facility in the country's south. The plant was significant because it was the only one in the world at the time to produce large quantities of heavy water, or D2O — a deuterium-rich substance crucial to developing atomic weapons. Read more: How Nazi policies of expansion led to World War II Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1F55x Ronneberg and his commando team parachuted onto a mountain plateau and skied to their heavily guarded target, sneaking into the plant on foot and setting explosive charges on the heavy water production line. As the explosives went off, the group escaped the complex unnoticed and fled hundreds of kilometers across the mountains. They managed to avoid capture, despite a manhunt involving some 3,000 German soldiers. Two weeks later, Ronneberg skied into neighboring Sweden, a neutral country during the war. Public figure The daring raid was the subject of the 1965 Hollywood film The Heroes of Telemark, starring Kirk Douglas, as well as several books, documentaries and a TV drama series. After the end of the war, Ronneberg began working as a radio journalist and was reticent to speak about his time as a resistance fighter. It was only several decades later, in the 1970s, that he broke his silence and began speaking publicly against the dangers of war and totalitarianism. As Hitler's Propaganda Minister, the virulently anti-Semitic Goebbels was responsible for making sure a single, iron-clad Nazi message reached every citizen of the Third Reich. He strangled freedom of the press, controlled all media, arts, and information, and pushed Hitler to declare "Total War." He and his wife committed suicide in 1945, after poisoning their six children. The leader of the German National Socialist Workers' Party (Nazi) developed his anti-Semitic, anti-communist and racist ideology well before coming to power as Chancellor in 1933. He undermined political institutions to transform Germany into a totalitarian state. From 1939 to 1945, he led Germany in World War II while overseeing the Holocaust. He committed suicide in April 1945. As leader of the Nazi paramilitary SS ("Schutzstaffel"), Himmler was one of the Nazi party members most directly responsible for the Holocaust. He also served as Chief of Police and Minister of the Interior, thereby controlling all of the Third Reich's security forces. He oversaw the construction and operations of all extermination camps, in which more than 6 million Jews were murdered. Hess joined the Nazi party in 1920 and took part in the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch, a failed Nazi attempt to gain power. While in prison, he helped Hitler write "Mein Kampf." Hess flew to Scotland in 1941 to attempt a peace negotiation, where he was arrested and held until the war's end. In 1946, he stood trial in Nuremberg and was sentenced to life in prison, where he died. Alongside Himmler, Eichmann was one of the chief organizers of the Holocaust. As an SS Lieutenant colonel, he managed the mass deportations of Jews to Nazi extermination camps in Eastern Europe. After Germany's defeat, Eichmann fled to Austria and then to Argentina, where he was captured by the Israeli Mossad in 1960. Tried and found guilty of crimes against humanity, he was executed in 1962. A participant in the failed Beer Hall Putsch, Göring became the second-most powerful man in Germany once the Nazis took power. He founded the Gestapo, the Secret State Police, and served as Luftwaffe commander until just before the war's end, though he increasingly lost favor with Hitler. Göring was sentenced to death at Nuremberg but committed suicide the night before it was enacted. Author: Cristina Burack nm/cmk (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.