Doubts abound about the ability of Bangladesh's election commission to hold a free and fair general election, expected to be held at the end of December. Skepticism has grown further after a court recently doubled the jail term for imprisoned opposition leader Khaleda Zia from five to 10 years for what her supporters say are trumped-up corruption charges. The decision came a day after Zia, arch-rival of current Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, was handed a separate seven-year term for other graft charges. The rulings have thrown the already beleaguered main opposition party into a state of total disarray. Bangladesh's ruling Awami League, meanwhile, is looking to cement its power by securing another victory in the upcoming elections. But critics have called PM Hasina's rule increasingly authoritarian. They point to the recently passed digital security law, widely criticized by media outlets and rights groups for its potential to be misused by the authorities to curb dissent and free speech. Read more: Zero Tolerance - Bangladesh: The Dawn of Islamism The government says it has been enacted to protect the country from misinformation and propaganda. Critics of Hasina's administration, including a prominent photojournalist and lawyers and journalists, have been detained since major anti-government protests in August brought hundreds of thousands to the streets. While the Awami League had previously rejected to hold any talks with opposition parties on the looming election, it has now relented and agreed to talks with an opposition alliance that includes the BNP. The talks are set to be held on Thursday. Despite the fragile democratic situation in the poverty-stricken South Asian country, the European Union said it has decided not to send an election observer team to Bangladesh to monitor the upcoming polls. In a DW interview, EU Ambassador to Bangladesh Rensje Teerink spoke about the reasons for not sending the observer team as well as the current state of affairs in the country. Teerink: 'Free speech and free press are universal values that the EU always strives to uphold' DW: How do you view the current relationship between Bangladesh and the European Union? Rensje Teerink: The relationship between the two sides is very good and longstanding. It was previously characterized by development cooperation, but now trade also plays a more prominent role. The EU is the biggest destination for Bangladesh's garment sector. Politically, too, we share a good and cordial relationship. We work together on a wide range of areas, including human rights, good governance, development programs, public finance management and education. I think there's always scope to do more, but we have come a long way after all these years. The new digital security law in Bangladesh has been criticized by rights groups for its potential to muzzle free speech and silence critics. What's your take on this law? We have been listening to all voices here in Bangladesh, including the media, civil society groups, academics and intellectuals, who were voicing their concerns about the law. We raised the issues with the Bangladeshi law minister and other high-ranking officials. We even had a meeting on the issue chaired by the foreign minister. Read more: Bangladesh: Beware of what you say on talk shows During these meetings, we were updated on the law and told that it's still open for changes. So it's rather positive if the government is really still open to making changes. Many are looking at Bangladesh to see how they deal with this situation. We're also closely following the developments here, particularly at a time when multilateralism is coming under increasing attack. Free speech and free press are universal values that the EU always strives to uphold. That's why we're monitoring how countries worldwide, not only Bangladesh, are upholding the freedom of expression. Read more: Is Bangladesh's media freedom deteriorating? Opposition parties and civil society groups accuse the Bangladeshi government of committing gross human rights violations and curtailing political space for opposition voices. How do you view these allegations? It's really difficult for me as a spectator to go into political discourses here. Every side has its own story. I tend to try and see what's actually going on in the country. I think it's quite positive that the opposition and the ruling party are now going to meet on November 1 to hold talks on the elections. We welcome this development. I am a relative newcomer to Bangladesh; I have been here for just a year. I have always been told that when Bangladesh gears up for elections, there will be political turmoil and mass demonstrations on the streets. But so far, I must say, it has been quite calm. We remain hopeful and we welcome these elections. It's good that the opposition is participating in the elections this time round. And we're confident and hopeful that it will be a genuine, credible, transparent and inclusive election. The Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) was formed in 2004 to battle growing Islamism in Bangladesh. It initially managed to arrest or kill some top terrorists. But it did not take long for RAB's good reputation to be tarnished as it slowly became a symbol of fear. It's now seen as an all-powerful "death squad" unit that acts on the fringes of the law and imposes its own brand of justice. The South Asian nation's government has been planning to spend about 1.21 billion Bangladeshi taka (€12 million, $13.9 million) on the monitoring project, according to DW's local media partner bdnews24.com. The project will allow RAB to monitor activities like anti-state propaganda, rumors and provocations on Facebook, YouTube, Viber as well as other means of communication on the internet. Tasneem Khalil, a Swedish-Bangladeshi journalist, reminds that RAB has already been used for detaining government critics for their comments on Facebook. "Now such cases will multiply," he said, adding: ''International actors, especially the EU, must take concrete action and sanction this force, which is a tool for curtailing freedoms and liberties of ordinary citizens in the country." The Bangladeshi government has recently come up with a new law, the Digital Security Act, which contains provisions mandating long prison sentences of up to seven years or harsh fines for any statement posted online that might disrupt the law and order situation, hurt religious feelings or ruin communal harmony. Experts consider the law as part of a broader campaign to silence government critics. In a rare move, prominent newspaper editors of the Muslim-majority country on Monday formed a human chain in front of the national press club in the capital Dhaka demanding amendments to nine sections of the Digital Security Act. They say these sections pose a threat to independent journalism and the freedom of expression. But the government has yet to respond to those demands. A journalist could be convicted of espionage for entering a government office and gathering information secretly using any electronic device, an offense that would carry a 14-year jail sentence, according to the new law. Mahfuz Anam, a prominent editor, said, "This law will not only deal with cybercrimes but also gag the independent media." Despite global condemnation, Bangladesh, which ranked 146th among 180 countries in the Press Freedom Index 2018, has kept prominent activist Shahidul Alam behind bars. He was arrested in August following his criticism of the government for using excessive force against peaceful student protesters. Activists view his arrest as a sign of the government's harsh treatment of its critics. Author: Arafatul Islam But the EU is not sending its observer team to monitor the elections in Bangladesh. Why? No, we're not sending an observer team. That's because sending a credible observer mission is a very big operation. It requires a big number of observers and months of preparation. So, in budgetary terms, it's quite expensive. And it takes a lot of effort and preparation. We have therefore decided not to send a team this time round. That doesn't mean that we're not going to follow these elections. We will definitely be paying close attention to the developments in the country. Furthermore, Bangladesh has good local observers, who probably are going to do an excellent job monitoring the elections. Read more: Why Bangladesh student protests are not just about road safety What criteria, other than money, does the EU take into consideration while deciding to send election observers? It's a question of prioritizing, and I cannot go into all the details because there are so many elections taking place around the world. So we have to make very informed decisions on whether or not to send observer missions. One of the most important criteria is the time span available to us to carry out the mission. Then, there are security constraints in certain places. So there are multiple criteria we consider before taking the decision. Read more: Bangladesh — A new Asian entrant in space exploration How do you see Bangladeshi politics and democracy evolving in the coming months and years? I don't have a crystal ball and I am not going to make any predictions. What we look forward to is political stability in Bangladesh. We also hope the country maintains its current economic growth trajectory. The country has performed exceedingly well when it comes to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Its economic expansion over the past decade has been impressive. So we would like to see the country develop into a stable and prosperous place for all Bangladeshis. Rensje Teerink is the EU ambassador to Bangladesh. The interview was conducted by Harun Ur Rashid Swapan. It has been edited for clarity. Bangladesh has witnessed massive student protests over the past several days, after two teenagers were killed by a speeding bus in the capital Dhaka on July 29. The demonstrators, mostly students in their mid-teens, blame the government for failing to enforce traffic laws. On Thursday, some students even took matters into their own hands and began enforcing rules and regulations. The protesters have put forward a set of demands for the government. They include strict enforcement of traffic laws, ensuring safe roads and eradicating corruption in the transport sector. Furthermore, they call for harsh punishments for traffic violators, including the death penalty for reckless drivers. On Thursday, Bangladesh's education ministry shut down high schools and colleges in an effort to quell the unrest. The government also promised students their demands for reforms to road safety would be considered. Still, the anger hasn't subdued. In Dhaka, students were seen attempting to bring traffic discipline by checking drivers' registration papers and driving licenses. Authorities have pleaded with students to call off the protests that have nearly paralyzed Dhaka and spread beyond the capital. But they have had little success so far as the demonstrators refuse to give up their protest. Chanting "we want justice," the protesters on Thursday even defied pouring rain to march in Dhaka. In some places, there have been clashes between the protesters and police. Videos circulated on social media show the police beating up students in an effort to clear the blockaded roads. Authorities say more than 300 vehicles have been vandalized since the protests started. The students say ensuring safe roads in the country should be a higher priority for the Bangladeshi government than digitizing the nation. They argue that internet connectivity and digitization are of little use if the government is unable to ensure security on the country's roads. Meanwhile, not everyone seems to be happy with the students' action. Bangladesh's transport workers on Thursday stopped operating bus services across the country and demanded security from the student protesters. They also staged a demonstration at the Gabtoli Bus Terminal in Dhaka. Author: Arafatul Islam (rr)