Peter Vogl is not interested in the classics of the horror genre. There are no entries for Psycho and Halloween in Das große Buch des kleinen Horrors (The Big Book of Little Horrors). His book, which hits stores on Halloween (October 31), instead looks at movies like Attack of the Killer Donuts, Demonic Toys or the Puppet Master film franchise. Each are part of a genre of "tiny horror" films that have included early schlock works by celebrated directors like James Cameron (Piranha 2: The Spawning), or more renowned horror classics that feature maniacal small children, killer toys and evil diminutive beasties such as Pet Sematary, based on the Stephen King thriller, Gremlins and Child's Play. Read more: Halloween quiz Evil comes in all sizes This particular horror film bible explores the hordes of celluloid ghoulies, gnomes, critters, babies, elves, gingerbread men, and all sorts of indefinable little monsters that threaten our lives, but at the same time invites audiences to laugh and gasp at the shocking ridiculousness of it all. But while the direct-to-video horror comedy Demonic Toys is ultimately innocent schlock fun; the evil little fairies in Guillermo del Toro's Don't Be Afraid of the Dark are genuinely scary. A combination of the two should be included in any Halloween horror film night. Scary look, isn't it? Halloween fans can purchase horror, or "fun," lenses in stores or online. Some of them come with prescription-strength lenses, but all of them are only available in standard sizes. Human eyes, however, come in many different shapes and sizes. And if the lenses don't fit right, they can cause scratching or more severe damage. With many fun lenses, the color seals your eye's pores, and the eyes don't get enough oxygen. In time, the cornea can swell up and your vision could deteriorate. Even part-time Halloween zombies should be concerned about this one. Listen up, clown! Without oxygen under your lenses, a closed-off, moist environment forms. Bacteria can multiply easily there. That increases the risk of pink eye and cornea infections, so even after dropping the costume, you'll still be horrifying. When a contact lens's pigment is right on the surface, bacteria can stick even better. The safer option? Lenses that sandwich the color between two layers and therefore help protect your eyes. Good zombies share everything from brains to contact lenses, right? Wrong. Never swap lenses with a friend. Otherwise pathogens will travel directly from eye to eye. Even when using lenses yourself, hygiene is incredibly important. Be diligent about washing your hands before putting them in and taking them out. Fun lenses are extremely dangerous while driving. Cat eyes and other horror lenses significantly reduce your field of vision and how sensitive you are to contrasts. That's why colored lenses are taboo in traffic, as many manufacturers have pointed out as well. Ophthalmologists say you should only wear colored fun lenses for as short a time as possible. If you can't get them out after wearing them for too long, you can moisten them with eye drops. That should make them more flexible and easier to take out. Always check your lenses' recommended maximum wear time, and once the party is over, toss 'em! That said, if you have multiple-use fun lenses and do want to save them for next year, make sure you do the following: clean with the correct fluid, use disinfectant and keep them in a sterile container. Happy Halloween! Author: Alexander Freund (cb) Reviving a lost genre If you aren't familiar with "tiny terror" films, then you probably aren't a member of the select crowd who are obsessed with this fringe horror genre. Most of the low budget films were made at the peak of the video rental store in the 1980s and 90s, and were released straight to video. Vogl wades into the deepest depths of trash, C film and bad amateur productions while also looking at cult exemplars of the tiny horror genre such as Puppet Master, which has had 10 remakes since debuting in 1989, including the 2018 reboot, Puppet Master: The Littlest Reich. "The films are quite often funny, too often boring, always peculiar and sometimes a bit abnormal, perverse, banal, inspiring," Vogl writes in the book. "Nearly no one – even fans of genre films – would watch such horrors voluntarily and regularly." This Halloween might be the perfect chance to revisit some of these literal film horrors. Peter Vogl's "Das große Buch des kleinen Horrors: Eine Film-Enzyklopädie" is available from Mühlbeyer Filmbuchverlag from October 31,2018. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36dsi